[music]
US markets are the deepest and most
liquid markets. We still see a lot of
upside opportunity in US markets.
>> I don't think we'll see a massive
correction. The US has been really an
incredibly strongly performing market.
We continue to be positive on the US.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Good Friday morning. This week's g
geopolitical whiplash finally comes to a
close. The US benchmark struggles to
hold on to a midweek rebound set for its
first back-to-back weekly loss since
last summer. Add to [music] that the
dollar's worst run in 7 months and a
Treasury sell-off are ebbing
geopolitical risks enough to save off a
sell America trade. I'm Danny Bergher
alongside David Gura. John, Lisa, and
Ann Marie are on their [music] way back
from Davos. Hopefully they make it in
before the snowstorm that's supposed to
happen. David, I got to say I Yes,
[music] I said ebbing geopolitical risk,
but that feels almost wrong to say cuz
sure we backed off the worst of [music]
Greenland, but there are still threats
out there.
>> Absolutely. And so we still don't have a
Fed pick as well. That's something else
roing in the background. But yes, it's
hard [music] to believe this was a
shortened week. I mean, 4 days in, um,
it has been such a roller coaster ride
over the course of Davos. And yes, we've
backed off. We've seen the president
back off that Greenland threat. But as
we saw in that kind of all night meeting
in Brussels last night, this is still
very raw and royal, [music] I think,
with a lot of European allies. Some of
the rhetoric was just so fiery whether
it came from Zalinski, [music]
Trump himself, Mark Carney, warning that
this is a rupture, not a transition, it
is assets that are weaker in the US. How
much of though is [music] that about
that story specifically or is it just
we've run up a lot. We're starting
earning season, but oh by the way, Intel
looked bad yesterday.
>> Forgot about earning season as all of
this unfolded. Yes. I mean, the Intel
earnings are certainly important. We're
going to talk about those. I know. But
you mentioned that [music] Mark Carney
speech and I think that's going to be
the signal moment from this Davos. Yes,
we had President Trump going there, the
anticipation about what he was going to
say about Greenland. But I think Mark
Carney really laying that line down in
the sand [music] about a break here in
the global order. I think that's going
to have kind of ripple effects here over
the next many years.
>> At least for today though, it is back to
business and maybe back to [music]
salting your roads and preparing for an
avalanche of snow. For this equity
market, it is another day of losses. We
did have two backtoback gains. That
rally though, no signs of showing up
today. As David mentioned, [music] it's
Intel weighing on the NASDAQ 100. Yes,
treasuries have a little bit of a better
run today, but that follows a yields
that were ticking up higher yesterday
[music]
after not just the drama of the week,
but also the fact that you had stronger
data coming in coming up. Coming up on
this show, Ben Ladler of Bradesco BBI as
the equity rebound loses [music] steam,
frankly, of HSBC as Intel plunges after
disappointing forecast. and Rebecca Home
Keys of London Business School as
investors turn attention to next week's
Fed decision. We begin this hour with
stocks pulling back on course for
back-to-back weekly losses. Ben Ladler
of Besco BBI staying constructive,
writing, "We are positive on 2026
despite renewed uncertainty, but with a
fundamental outlook for resilience
global growth, lower interest rates,
high-tech driven capex, and a continued
rotation." Ben, I'm pleased to say,
joins us now. Ben, good morning to you.
I I want to start on that rotation cuz
we have seen it. We've seen small caps
outperform, emerging markets outperform,
and you believe that this is going to be
a year where value can show up. We've
seen a lot of false dawns. Why is this
time different?
>> Absolutely. I think this is a broadening
sort of great rotation. I think it
started last year. We saw international
have its best year in in over a decade
versus versus the US. And now this year,
we're just seeing it broaden. Um it's
broadening by sector. Tech is lagging,
commodities, industrials your top
performers of the year. We're seeing it
broadened by style. Value is doing very
well. Growth is on the back foot. And I
think this I think this is driven by the
fundamentals. Growth is firming up
globally. We're still looking for
interest rate cuts, but also, you know,
the technicals. Um, this is a classic
January reallocation as allocators look
ahead to this stronger growth and
actually realize that they're very
crowded in the US and in tech and
probably don't own enough of these other
assets. Is there a sense, Ben, and this
is something Julian Emanuel of Evercore
has been writing about this morning,
that after the selloff of Greenland, of
Trump era uncertainties, that there's a
sense that the deck has been reset both
in terms of positioning and sentiment
and dispelled complacency. Is that fair?
Is complacency now gone from this market
after this week?
>> US equities are still flat for the year.
Um, you know, we've had a little bit of
a shakeout. I think this is as much more
about the rest of the world than it is
you know about the US right we have
markets in the rest of the world that
are up 20% just so far this year so I
think it's a very positive rotation you
know you mentioned EM LATAM have been
the big beneficiaries of that I think
that will continue but you know the
bottom line on the US and I'm not
negative the US it's just we pulled all
the levers already run 22 times earnings
that's you know close to a record for
the S&P 500 earnings expectations s for
this year of 15%. That's near twice
average and profit margins are at
all-time highs. Tell me where the
surprise is going to come from which is
going to take you know US equities you
know meaningfully higher from here.
That's what I struggle with.
>> Ben, I want to ask you about the lessons
that you've learned from what we've seen
over the course of of this week. The the
rhetoric that we've heard, the speeches
that we've heard, all of the pomp and
circumstance and and President Trump
taking Europe up up to the brink. How do
you think about that when you look at
the VIX? what hovering around 16 here.
The level of complacency that we've seen
here relative to to all of that. Um what
does it tell you about sort of the
market's attitude toward what we've seen
from the president?
>> It tells me two things. It tells me that
the market has learned to live with
these elevated levels of uh policy
uncertainty. But it also tells me the
markets are very focused on the
fundamentals. We have a US GDP now cost
sitting at 5%. We have the IMF just
delayed this to take up their global
growth, you know, forecasts. We're still
looking at a couple of Fed cuts. US
earnings expectations, you know, 15% for
this year. The fundamentals, despite all
that uncertainty, are very, very
healthy, which is why again, I'm not
bearish on the US. I'm just much more
bullish on a lot of other things.
>> You know, we talked about the the
rotation sort of the geographic
rotation. We've talked a bit about that
over the course of of this conversation.
When it comes to the sector by sector
rotation, you you had a fascinating
phrase. you talked to international tech
is kind of a value insurance and I
wonder if you could explain sort of what
that means exactly and how how investors
are deploying that right now.
>> The tech outlook is great. We've got you
know we've heard from the supply chain
you know the sort of validation of these
sort of 30% growth outlook uh which is
also what we're expecting from earnings
season. Um so I think you know but the
problem is the valuation is already very
high. You're paying 30 times plus
earnings um PE for that. I think what's
interesting about EM is you have a very
similar tech weight. So at least as
dependent on tech in EM as you are in
the US except the valuations of the
Samsungs, the TSMC's, the 10 cents of
the world are basically half what they
are in the US. So by all means own tech,
but I would, you know, you say there's
not a lot of insurance out there. The
VIX is maybe a little bit complacent. I
think some of the insurance for that
sits in some of these cheaper versions
of the sectors that you like.
>> Ben, in some of the runup that we've
seen in tech, it's come from those that
exist in the AI ecosystem. When you look
at an earnings like yesterday, where
Intel not only misses, but is so
punished for it in the pre-market down
in the teens, is that kind of a playbook
for the other big tech we're likely to
get this week. Any near miss, is that a
recipe for really painful losses?
I think that's the risk. I mean, as I
look at, you know, big tech earnings
next week, the the the setup here is
that it's all about tech. If you look at
that 10% earnings forecast for the S&P
500 and you disagregate it, it's all
driven by this 30% tech number. So, you
know, if tech does miss, you know, we're
in trouble. Um, and and it's more about
tech than it ever has been. I think some
of the Intel issues are idiosyncratic.
But yes, this setup of high valuations,
high expectations, high margins is one I
think which makes it difficult for you
to get that that surprise which is going
to drive out performance. I think we're
set up for a very average US year and I
think the room for surprise given the
valuations given the expectations just
so much higher elsewhere
>> and and again this gets back to your
point of valuations look more attractive
for tech abroad than they do in the US
and underscoring that too is the fact
that the mag seven has been lagging I've
heard it called the lag seven which I
like as corny as that is Ben what needs
to go right for the outperformance of
that market leadership to continue
>> just this 30% growth number needs to
become a 40% growth number and you know
maybe we get that with you know with
earnings you know next week but we need
to have a you know we need to have a
surprise versus already high
expectations and you know there's not a
person on the planet that doesn't own
you know big tech today um I just so I
think the bar is just set quite high and
again elsewhere in other assets other
parts of the world the bar is just set
so much lower. Hey Ben, thank you so
much for joining us this morning. Have a
great weekend. Ben Ladler of Bedesco
BBI. Ben was talking about surprises in
tech for this market. Maybe here's one
for you. Breaking news from our
Bloomberg team just moments ago. China
has told Alibaba, Bite Dance, and
Tencent and other top Chinese firms that
they can start to prep Nvidia H200
orders. There's been a lot of back and
forth reporting on this as whether China
would allow the orders of the Nvidia
chip or not, but this does suggest that
they're moving ahead with plans. It's
something Nvidia has let out completely
of their earnings, putting China at a
zero. David, maybe this is finally a
change. Does it signifi signify cooling
tensions or just the fact that Chinese
tech firms need Nvidia to operate?
>> I think they undisputedly need these
these chips, but I think you bring up
that moment from from the earning the
most recent earnings that Nvidia had. I
was so astonishing to hear that they'd
put a zero there for that. And I think
that they have been navigating this as
the rest of us have with this huge
element of uncertainty whether this was
going to be allowed. So um certainly a
huge move here uh that we're seeing from
those Chinese companies.
>> Yeah, shares are up just more than 1%
still not completely the allclear. This
is just and allowing them to prep for
orders of the H200. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's your Bloomberg brief
with Lizzie Burton. Hey Lizzie.
>> Hey Danny. President Donald Trump
continuing to push for access to
Greenland. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that the US wants [music] to
rewrite its defense agreement with
Denmark to remove any limits on its
military presence on the island. The
current arrangement signed in 1951 and
amended in 2004 calls for the US to
consult with both Denmark and Greenland
before it [music] makes any significant
changes. Elsewhere, the Japanese yen
whipsing after the Bank of Japan left
its policy rate unchanged at 0.75%.
[music] This as the central bank says
that it needs time to assess the impact
of last month's [music] rate hike and
weighs the outcome of the upcoming snap
election. The BOJ also raised its
inflation outlook and left the door open
for an early [music] rate hike.
Meanwhile, Chinese officials have told
the country's largest tech firms, as you
were discussing, that they can prepare
orders for Nvidia's H200 AI chips.
Regulators have granted inprincipal
approval for Alibaba, 10-centent
Holdings and Bite [music] Dance to move
to the next stage of preparations for
purchases. Beijing will encourage
companies to buy a certain amount of
domestic chips [music] as a condition
for approval. And that should be very
brief. Donnie Lizzie, thank you very
much. Up next on the show, Canada
strikes back.
>> Canada lives because of the United
States. Remember that
>> Canada
doesn't live because of the United
States.
Canada thrives because we are Canadian.
>> Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy joins us
next. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> headed for a first week to week backto
back losses since June for this equity
market. Tech tries to turn it around
this morning. First, it was Intel
earnings that sent the benchmark lower.
We eased off of that. Nvidia is rallying
this morning after news that China is
allowing some firms to prep for H200
orders, but overall its stocks ending an
exhausting week on the back foot.
Although Nvidia tries to fight back bond
yields, those also ease off the worst of
their losses this morning. Yesterday, it
was about stronger US data. Earlier in
the week, it was about Greenland and it
was about JGB yields moving higher.
Japan a continued source of volatility,
but at least for this bond market, a
sleepy [music] morning. Under
surveillance this morning, Canada
strikes back.
>> Canada gets a lot of freebies from us.
By the way, they should be grateful.
Canada lives because of the United
States. Remember that.
>> Canada and the United States have built
a remarkable partnership in the economy,
in security, and in rich cultural
exchange.
But Canada
doesn't live because of the United
States. Canada thrives because we are
Canadian.
Here's the latest. President Trump
withdrawing Canada's invitation to join
his Board of Peace as tensions soar with
Prime Minister Mark Carney. Carney
previously saying Canada would join the
board before shifting tone and urging
countries to band together against US
threats. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
us now. Tyler, whoever said that Davos
wasn't important, here we are on the
world stage. Two leaders hashing it out.
Where do we end this week?
>> Yeah. Hey, Danny. I mean, this is the uh
most recent escalation in what has been
increasingly tense relations between the
US and Canada. And you're exactly right.
This appeared to have started in Davos
where we heard the Canadian Prime
Minister Mark Carney in his speech. Not
name President Trump, but it was widely
seen as a sharp rebuke of this
administrations and its policies
particularly around trade. And in
response, as you just mentioned, the
president has withdrawn. Another
centerpiece that happened in Davos, the
signing of the bord of peace, even
though Mark Carney had already accepted
the offer in principle, and President
Trump of course didn't hold back in
namechecking Carney in his speech. But
this feels like recent escalation, a
recent tit fortat. But we have to keep
in mind this relation has long been
strained. Carney largely campaigned on
countering this White House's trade
policies. And there has been mounting
frustration on both sides when it comes
to a lack of progress on a trade deal.
While of course the majority of Canadian
exports to the US are covered by USMCA,
there is still some big exposure on some
of those sector specific tariffs for
Canada such as steel as one example.
That's actually led Carney in recent
months to declare that he now has this
goal of doubling non US exports over the
next decade and that's contributed to
him reaching out to some other countries
including China which Carney called a
better trading partner than the US just
last week after the two countries inked
a new trade pack. Uh so a lot there that
this could ultimately uh develop into.
But uh Danny and David uh the US
commerce secretary Howard Lutnik was
actually on this program yesterday. He
largely dismissed Carney's moves as what
he called quote political noise. But to
your original question on where this is
all going, we could potentially see
impacts when the US MCA is renegotiated
this summer. Uh Lutnik had suggested
that Canada's tilt towards China could
complicate those matters. now uh it
faces this mandatory review, but there
is real talk that the renewal may not be
guaranteed depending on how Washington
views all of this.
>> Tyler, thank you very much for your
reporting all this week. That's
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Joining us
now is Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy.
Terry Dave and I were talking about this
at the top of the hour. Mark Carney of
Canada saying that this is not a
transition, this is a rupture. To what
degree did you see the events of the
past 5 days a rupture? Um, I saw it as
mostly as as political noise, frankly.
Danny, uh, you got a situation here
where, you know, sort of Trump's Trump's
dismissal and abuse serves Trump's
political purposes. Uh, Carney's
responses serve Carney's political
purposes as well. As Tyler points out,
uh, this was integral to to exactly why
Carney is Canada's prime minister right
now. Uh but you know those you know the
the most important speech out of Davos
for me uh this week was Zalinsk's in no
small part because what Zalinski did was
validated the United States view of the
world that Trump and I think by
extension Canada to some extent uh isn't
living up to its commitments and and had
better start.
>> Interesting criticism from Zilinsky
there about how Europe is focused on the
future not on the present. Let me go
back to Mark Carney if I could because
yes, that speech at Davos was the
capstone to to a big trip that he took.
He was in China in the Middle East
before that and that's kind of where I
want to go with you, Terry, as we kind
of play this out. He seems very proud
about the fact that Canada is a middle
country and is calling on middle
countries to kind of get together. And I
wonder, okay, I'll give you what you say
there that maybe this was some political
noise. How about the substance of the
trade deals that he brokered and
announced on the course of that trip
leading up to Davos? What does that tell
you about the way that he and other
world leaders are pursuing alliances? uh
in light of what we've heard from from
President Trump, in light of the
behavior from President Trump over the
course of this week,
>> speaking, David, it's vastly overblown
to assume that uh because the there's
some elbowing under the basket uh or
elbowing in front of the goal in
Canada's case uh uh between the United
States and a variety of European leaders
that the the Western Alliance is going
to rupture. uh it's not as if China is
uh kind of just another country out
there uh that you know will be
interested in having Canada pursue its
course just as the United economic and
uh and and in every geopolitically and
in every other way just as the United
States does. uh the the Chinese playbook
is very different and uh you know Carney
I think wants to set himself up as
Vaklav Havl for his uh for his domestic
audience and maybe part of a world
audience uh but what he's flirting with
is turning into Fidel Castro where he's
picking superpowers and u and that will
create a larger uh problem for Carney
specifically on the world stage uh you
know as of Europe Europe is having a
hard time getting out of its own way as
Zalinski he famously said and one one
thing that's happening with Europe is uh
you know they they spent 25 years 25
years negotiating a South American trade
agreement called Merkasaur and as soon
as it's done being negotiated they
slough it off to the European Court of
Justice to try to uh uh try to pick it
apart yet again. Uh this the these are
not people that are serious about
picking themselves up off the ground. Uh
and that's unfortunate. On the issue of
serious men,
I want to get your perspective on what
we've been through here visa v
Greenland. Terry, so we had the
president causing this storm, causing
this stir at Davos, coming to some sort
of framework agreement with the NATO
secretary general. Those conversations
will continue. Why did he put us through
this? We know about the agreement that's
in place with Greenland. Ho how much
better or how far have we advanced this
story here as a result of all of this
happening when it comes to the US
staking some some claim to or or
advancing some projects in in Greenland
and using it to secure more uh more
security in the Arctic?
>> Well, a couple of things. One, I think
markets are not so concerned about the
how. They're they're much more concerned
about the what and the why. Uh you know,
they've been through they've been
through 10 years of uh of Trump and
Trump's methods. Uh so that's uh you
know I think that gets uh overblown uh
elsewhere u and I think it's important
by the way but but but it gets overblown
compared to what markets care about
which is you know where are we going
next number one. Number two uh you have
two choices on uh why the United States
hair is on fire about uh Greenland. Uh
one is that Trump's a fool and idiot and
all the rest. I think that's uh largely
self-coming. The other is that we've had
at least for the past four years the
highest geopolitical risk in 50 years
and the United States is scrambling on a
lot of different fronts economically uh
defense industrial base uh taking uh
taking stakes in companies that are
interested they're rare earths and
minerals and all the rest uh you know
kind of realigning its economy to uh to
deal with the competition from China and
markets are just now catching up to
that. They seem to be generally
surprised by it, but uh but they
shouldn't be and a lot of that's the way
it's going to be going forward.
>> Terry, I I just wonder then in your mind
does this week solidify that Trump will
back off the most hawkish, the most
extreme, the most concerning of his
policies.
>> Uh I'm not sure what you mean by that.
Well, in here in this case, I mean I
mean using force in Greenland, is is
this market when it sells off and then
people buy the dip assuming a taco trade
or whatever, is that play still at hand?
>> Uh I think uh I think anybody that's in
this and thinks that uh what's been
happening is taco or backing off is has
kind of lost the plot. Frankly, uh the
United States interest has been
consistent throughout and it's not
different than the interest in
Venezuela, frankly. Uh there are there
there were two priorities in Greenland.
First to improve United States and
Western national security in what's now
being called the far north. Uh secondly
was to gain greater access to minerals
and rare earths. Uh that's the through
line and that's been the Trump
administration's interest and that's how
they're going forward. Uh as to Trump's
methods, I don't defend them. uh at the
same time uh I'll you know look back at
Europe I think for uh for potential
justification it has taken 10 years nine
years really but uh 10 years of the
United States jawboning uh saying look
you you need to meet your your NATO
commitments your defense commitments get
yourselves together still hasn't
happened uh what ends up happening at
the end of this is that you know they
want to they Europe want to say Slava
Ukrainian and say, "Well, you know,
we're with Ukraine till the end." And
Ukraine's own leader says, "You could be
doing twice as much as you're doing
right now. You're not doing it." Uh, you
know, you're putting us in peril. Uh,
you know, you'd better get your acts
together. U, that's why I say Zilinsk's
speech was the most important of the
week because it validates the United
States frustration with Europe.
>> Terry, we're going to have to leave it
there. Thank you so much for joining us.
Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy and David.
Also coming out of this, we're going to
get our first trilateral meeting
happening in Abu Dhabi, I believe. We'll
see whether that adds more to Zilinsk's
speech.
>> Yeah. And I think he like a lot of
people is probably gravely disappointed
by how little progress was made in
Moscow last night when Jared Kushner and
Steve Whit went there for uh Steve
Whit's seventh meeting with with
President Putin. We'll see if that kind
of lower level they're able to make more
progress [music] in the Middle East this
weekend.
>> First coming up though on this show,
Frank Lee of HSBC as Intel's
disappointing forecast sends shares
tumbling. [music] Plus Bonnie Quinn with
your movers of this morning as Nvidia up
this morning up 1.6% China clearing the
way for H200 purchases. You're watching
Bloomberg surveillance.
[music]
It's hard to believe this has been only
a 4-day week. It's a week that's felt
like a year. And for this equity market,
it's been a not so nice one. We are
headed for 2 weeks of losses but trying
to fight back this morning off of the
lows thanks to Nvidia. Bonnie Quinn
[music] will have that and your movers
in just a moment. The tugof- warar
between what wins out an Intel selloff
or Nvidia gaining this morning. Russell
2000 underperforms. I do want to point
out that they have had eight record
[music] closes so far this year. That
means that they've outperformed the S&P
for 14 days in a row. That's the first
time that's [music] happened for the
small cap index in 30 years. When it
comes to your bond market, it has been a
range finally [music] exceeded. We were
a little moved on this bond market and
you get a big jolt this week. Be it from
the geopolitics of Greenland or be it
from JGBs. More drama though in Japan
this morning after you had a Bank of
Japan decision or we don't get clarity
on where we're going. You see a yen
[music] that sells off and all of a
sudden a plunge in dollar yen. David,
people looked at this exact moment and
said, "Is it intervention? Is it
something else?"
>> No. An unanswered question. I think the
finance ministry demured when was asked
about whether there had been some
intervention here. But something I think
we're going to track here over the
course of of the day. But um yeah, an
astonishing move there on [music] dollar
yen.
>> And it could have just been channel
checked.
>> Sure.
>> But if it was an intervention, it does
speak to this idea [music] that the
trend has been weaker dollar. The MOF
doesn't step in unless the trend is in
their favor. And the trend has been sell
US assets and sell the dollar at least
for the past week or so.
>> Many lessons learned here over the
course of this shortened week. One was
from Ken Griffin talking to our Eric
Shhatsker in Davos saying don't
underestimate what we [music] can learn
from Japan and what's happening there.
So here maybe another lesson in that
textbook that we're seeing written in
real time.
>> That's for sure. Interational markets
having a big role to play here [music]
in the US. 3 hours away from your cash
open. Let's get some morning movers with
Bonnie Quinn. Morning Bonnie.
>> Good morning Danny. Well you mentioned
it. We saw futures improving. They might
still be pointed lower, but this is why
they are improving. We're seeing Nvidia
[music] off its highs, but it just
jumped pre-market when that news hit the
wire that China officials have started
telling [music] the hyperscalers like
Tencent and so on that they can start
preparing for ordering H200 [music]
chips from Nvidia. Now, we know that
some of them have told Nvidia privately
that they plan to order as many as
200,000. So, it would be a boon for
Nvidia and also [music] put to rest all
of this waiting and watching and
wondering whether Nvidia can actually
ship its H200 [music]
chips to China. Of course, it's giving
TSMC, the manufacturer, a boost as
[music] well. And obviously, it will
also, you know, sort of hurt some of the
Chinese AI chip manufacturers like
Huawei who have been trying to sort of
get a march on Nvidia. [music] So,
definitely one to watch for today's
session. Now let's move on to Intel
because certainly not the case for
Intel. Intel reporting earnings and
really disappointing investors. Now bear
in mind we were up almost 15% this week
alone on Intel. So perhaps investors
getting ahead of their skis a little bit
but Lip Bhutan [music]
basically giving a very disappointing
forecast also saying that they had hit
manufacturing snags. Look anyone
watching Intel would know that this has
been the [music] story. Neil Campling of
Bloomberg News earlier saying that Intel
has suffered under the last three CEOs
and is a decade behind. And just one
figure for you. Intel [music] used to be
obviously the biggest semiconductor
company in the country. Nvidia is now 17
times the [music] size of Intel. So
that'll tell you how much it suffered.
And then moving to the financials, we
also got earnings from Capital 1
Financial down 2.4% [music] but it is
making an acquisition of a fintech
company Brex for more than 5.1 billion.
Capital 1 said revenue was up 53% in the
quarter year-over-year. But some
interesting comments from Richard
Fairbank. said if the credit card cap of
10% [music] goes into effect that might
actually cause a recession which was a
very strong [music]
comment from the CEO of Capital One
Financial. Danny,
>> it certainly is. And those shares off
2.4% this morning. Bonnie, thank you
very much. We'll catch up with you in
the [music] next hour. On our radar this
morning, the United States is reportedly
seeking to rewrite its defense agreement
with Denmark. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that American negotiators want
to ensure the US faces no restrictions
on its military presence in Greenland.
Elsewhere, the Kremlin saying
territorial issues remain unresolved
after President Putin met US envoys in
the latest push for a peace plan. This
all coming after US President Donald
Trump said he had a good meeting with
Ukrainian President Vladimir Zilinski in
Davos. And back in the US, Tik Tok and
its Chinese parent company, Bite Dance,
closing a long- aaited deal to transfer
parts of their US operations to American
investors. The move securing the popular
video apps feature in the US, David, and
avoiding a nationwide ban.
>> Yeah, interesting to kind of look at
what configuration this is going to
take. And we know who the investors are
who are involved here. So, it's Oracle,
Silverlake, and MGX. I think some
unanswered questions yet. Does this
satisfy what was in that law? And you
mentioned this kind of long-awaited
deal. This has been something that was
extended and extended and extended
again. So, um, this is something that's
been in the works for a while obviously,
but we'll be interested to see sort of
what this next iteration of Tik Tok
looks like, how in a very granular level
this is going to be run here in the US.
>> And, and that's part of the confusing
part of this, right, that you still have
Bite Dance licensing the algorithm, I
guess, to US Tik Tok. It doesn't own it.
Bite Dance still gets a valuable hold in
parts of the business like e-commerce.
In what world does that satisfy national
security concerns? And this is a law
that was bipartisan that both sides
agreed it was an issue. It feels like
maybe because this president enjoys Tik
Tok and thinks it got him elected that
maybe they're able to ease off a little
bit of the harshest criticism.
>> Yes. Not an avid Tik Tocker, but someone
I think who understands the power of
this medium of this platform. And we saw
him uh late last night chiming in on
Truth Social thanking President Xi for
doing this. So I think what you're
charting here is this really stark
change or evolution in tone from the
president when it comes to being quite
hawkish on China visav social media now
thanking the Chinese president for his
efforts here and going along with the
plan that the president hatched.
>> Well putting that tech drama aside
another one taking hold this morning in
Intel shares plunging after the
chipmakers revenue and earnings came in
well below expectations. Intel also gave
a disappointing forecast with CEO
Leboutan warning of ongoing struggles
with manufacturing.
>> We remain focused on the long-term
objective of building a worldclass wafer
and advanced packaging foundry. Building
a foundry business will take time and
considerable effort and resources.
frankly of HSBC upgrading the stock
earlier this week to hold from reduced
but writing we have been cautious on
Intel's foundry business driven by
execution issues and lack of visibility
on its external customer pipeline Frank
joins us now and Frank you and I were
just talking about this yesterday the
fact you wanted to see more of that vis
visibility were you two much like this
market let down by the results we got
from Intel yesterday
>> yeah I think the key thing was um we
were bullish about server overall dem
demand CPU demand and I think they
reiterated that message but I think what
was disappointing was the guidance was
disappointing given the fact demand is
so good um especially in data centers
expected to be down sequentially uh
quarter and quarter so I think that
speaks to the fact that they are still
having some of their own production
issue execution issues they've also may
be hampered by ongoing component issues
such as memory prices have continued to
go up and continues to remain quite
tight uh so I think if you look at it
the overall results was disappointing on
the side. Uh the positive part is that
demand is good but they haven't been
able to deliver so far on the execution
>> and say usually it's a good problem to
have when demand is so strong that you
can't meet it. Frank, how much of it is
about that piece versus execution
problems?
>> Yeah, I think the other thing that also
u perhaps the market got a bit
overexited was the foundry piece. This
is an area where we've generally been
more cautious. Uh I know there's been a
lot of uh speculation the last couple
months about, you know, more companies
want to sign with Intel, want to do
deals with them and and we've
acknowledged that there's engagement,
but engagement and actual orders and
actual revenues are two different
things. And I think this time around, uh
you continue to express that they're not
looking to invest in Intel 14A until
they have something more solid. So I
think that is one of the other issues
the stock is some of it could also be
expectation behind a foundry business
got a little ahead of itself. Frank,
this is an existential question, but I'm
curious. Finel knows what it wants to be
going forward. So, it still has pretty
relatively new leadership here. Uh, I
think a Royland question has been,
should it produce chips and design
chips? Can it do both of these things if
its aim is to compete with with its
rivals? How how do you see this
company's effort to kind of go through
again that existential question of what
Intel is in the year 2026?
Yeah, I I think the part of the issue is
the story has gotten complicated because
they have this foundry business which
has been very questionable in terms of
whether that's the right business to do.
But there's also I think a lot of
pressure uh from a geopolitical point of
view to have you know a domestic
boundary player in the US. So I think
that's the difficulty is that if it was
just about the core business the CPU
business itself it's a much simpler
story because that means like you know
they are benefiting from strong demand.
We're talking about server demand also
being now more and more linked with AI
uh and with gent AI uh but because of
the complexities of having this burden
of doing foundaries I think that
continues to be an ongoing drag for
them.
>> Talk a bit more about that pressure
because there is a lot of interest dare
I say from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue
other folks in Washington in making sure
this company can compete uh obviously
taking a stake uh in the company as
well. How is that manifest in the
earnings that we got here? How's it
manifest in the business today? sort of
how are you seeing that uh kind of show
up in the way the business is being run
right now?
>> Yeah, it's just too early to tell. I
mean, I think you know that's that's one
of the issues is that you know as you
build out the foundry business it's a
very long lead time. It takes several
years. Um this current generation of
their node the 18A we're not seeing very
much progress for 14A which is probably
the next real milestone. We're probably
at least 2 years away from seeing any
contribution. So it's still going to be
quite a a bit of a long road. Um I think
one positive light is that they did
highlight the packaging. Uh now part of
the issue with AI in the last 2 years
been the packaging has been one of the
greatest areas of tightness. So we may
see an earlier breakthrough there in
terms of external customers but the
revenue opportunity for packaging is
still going to be much smaller than what
they would get on the front end foundry.
Hey Frank, only a few moments ago are
reporters on the tech team at Bloomberg
signaling that China has told Alibaba,
they've told Tencent and Bite Dance that
they can start to prep orders for H200s
from Nvidia. There's been a lot of back
and forth reporting on this whether
China would allow or not allow it. How
much faith do you take in China making
this move and how much does it change
for you your view on Nvidia sales?
>> Yeah, that's a good question. We've
generally taken the view that it's too
difficult to take a stren a stance on
the China situation because of the
uncertainties around the geopolitical
side around the trade side. So we have
generally not included the upside in
China into our revenue numbers. And
we've been saying that you know Nvidia
while China is nice to have it doesn't
contribute as much to the overall growth
as people think. I think Nvidia will
have a very strong year without with or
without China. Um, but I know obviously
the China part of the business does tend
to have a a more big impact in a
near-term sentiment, but as far as our
numbers and I think for most of the
street, uh, we think they can get to 350
billion in data center revenue this year
with really without even considering the
China part.
>> Frank, how is Nvidia kind of looking at
this? We know that they haven't been in
talks with the Chinese directly here.
They're kind of sitting idly by as all
of this unfolds. Obviously make a huge
difference to the business if this were
allowed to to happen here. But as Danny
pointed out at the top of the show, you
look at the last earnings from from
Nvidia. They're not taking anything for
granted here when it comes to to China.
Give us a sense of the psychology within
Nvidia when it comes to to China, how
they're thinking about this and the
prospects of it affecting their
business.
>> I think look, I think they definitely
will like to see that opportunity. I
think it's a big TAM opportunity to part
of, but I think there's also realistic
that, you know, it is not entirely in
their hands. Uh, you know, that in terms
of being able to tap that market. Um, I
also think that there's also a
recognition that the Chinese uh is going
to look to develop their own in-house
chip making abilities over time like
they have with other areas. U so there
is always going to be on the backdrop
that you know while we're able to get
into China at the same time the Chinese
are going to look uh increasing their
self-sufficiency over time. So that is I
think is always going to be there. You
know even if they can start selling to
China that doesn't take away that longer
term overhang. Frank, that that's kind
of where I wanted to leave this on. This
idea that this not just being a move of
easing geopolitics, but rather a China
tech sector that needs Nvidia. How far
does it seem to realizing that goal of
China to having a homegrown chipmaker
that can displace Nvidia?
>> It's not going to be quick. uh and I
know it's not going to be any but what
China I think the a lot of the the AI
language models what they're proving to
do is they're been looking at being more
efficient and not being able to rely on
the highest end chips to be more
efficient. So that's going to be
something we need to continue to watch.
I mean that was basically the deepseek
moment last year was that they were able
to make some breakthroughs. So I think
this is something that we can't uh that
we'll have to watch and I I think you
know while you know it is an important
it is a a big headline our thesis and I
think most of the analysts their thesis
around Nvidia is still largely just the
ongoing a AI data spent globally not
just really on the China part.
>> Hey Frank thank you so much for joining
us. We really appreciate your time
that's frankly of HSBC. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Back with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Lizzie Burden. Hey Lizzy.
>> Hey Danny. We've got gold and silver
rallying at the moment. The yellow metal
on track to gain nearly 8% [music] this
week, closing in on $5,000 an ounce.
Silver hitting an all-time high just
below $100 an ounce. This rally in
precious metals is being driven by
renewed geopolitical risks and the
weakening US dollar, which is on track
for its worst week [music] in 7 months.
Elsewhere, Tik Tok and its Chinese
parent Bite Dance closing in on a long
aait closing a long-awaited deal to
transfer parts of its US operations to
American investors. [music] The social
media company has officially established
a US entity with three managing
investors, Oracle, Silverlake, and Abu
Dhabi based MGX. The move secures the
app's future in the US after a yearslong
geopolitical and regulatory tugofwar.
[music]
And President Donald Trump is suing JP
Morgan and its CEO Jaime Diamond for at
least [music] $5 billion, alleging that
the lender stopped offering him and his
businesses banking [music] services for
political reasons. The complaint accuses
the bank of trade liel and breach of
implied covenant of good faith. JP
Morgan says the suit has no merit. That
should be my brief. Danny Lizzie, thank
you very much. Up next, awaiting the
next Fed chair pick.
>> I'll be telling you soon. Now I have
somebody that I think will be very good,
but I'm not going to reveal it.
>> Rebecca Humpish of the London Business
School joins us next. You're watching
Bloomberg [music] Surveillance.
[music]
On track [music] for back-to-back weekly
losses to round out a holiday shorten
week, your S&P 500 futures down by
onetenth of 1%. Same goes across the
board. tech. Yes, some underperformance,
slightly more underperformance from the
Russell 2000 despite a broadening trade
that had been outperforming with the MAG
7 down on the year while the Russell
2000 continues to hit new highs. We
[music] of course take a break from that
today. This bond market much more calm
than what we've seen this week. This
week is also one where we've seen a 420
handle [music] on your 10-year bond
market after trading in the high teens
for much of this year. A breakout being
led by both J Japanese market in the
geopolitics and stronger US data today.
The curve lower across the board this
morning down by about a basis point.
Your 30-year yield standing at 482.
Under surveillance this morning awaiting
the next Fed chair pick.
>> I'll be telling you soon.
>> Now I have somebody that I think will be
very good, but I'm not going to reveal
it.
uh somebody that's very respected, very
very well known and will do, I think, a
very good job.
>> Yeah.
>> Here's the latest. Investors awaiting
the Federal Reserve's first rate
decision of the year as President Trump
teases his pick for the central bank's
next chair. Rebecca Holkiss of the
London Business School writing, quote,
"Both aspects of the Fed's dual mandate
continue to move in the wrong direction,
albeit slowly. Next week's Fed decision
is unlikely to deliver clarity and
that's okay. Rebecca joins us now.
Rebecca, if that doesn't deliver
clarity, does a new Fed chair pick give
this market some clarity?
>> No, good morning Danny. Thanks so much
for having me. I feel like we have been
teasing this new Fed pick for months at
this point. And you know, I think we're
almost in some way overdoing it. Yes,
the Fed chair does have a lot of power
and influence, but voting on interest
rate decisions are still a committee
decision. one person coming in is not
going to completely revamp all the
agenda that they have right now. And I
think we do need to take that in mind,
especially as we're going to become
quite obsessive over who this new person
is, one of the Kevin or somebody else.
And I'm hoping that we do get some
clarity on that in the next month or so,
but I won't be surprised if this drags
out for several more weeks.
>> Uh yeah, you say one of the Kevin. It
does appear that we're down to one
Kevin. We'll we'll see [laughter] how
exactly that shapes today. This week,
we'll see. He could be back in the
running. We could add a Kevin. Who
knows? At this point, Rebecca, um, in
looking at the list of candidates, are
there any you're particularly concerned
about for moving, let's say, the bond
market for fears of Fed independence, or
if we've whittleled it down to Kevin
Worsh, Rick Reer, and Christopher
Waller, and Kevin Hasset falls by the
wayside. Are those three candidates that
are unlikely to cause serious ruptures?
>> Yeah, again, I'm not concerned about
serious ruptures with any of those four
candidates that we're looking at right
now. There is some concern that Kevin
Hass has being so close to the
administration might still be leading a
little bit too much on administration
agenda versus this very critical central
bank independence and I think that's why
we're pulling away from that. You know a
couple months ago we thought Kevin
Hasset was the shoe and pick and it
looks like we're back to some of the
others. All of these names though are
respected economic officials and again I
do need to emphasize we have a
historical basis. Once this individual
joins the board it is a voting by
committee and I'm hoping we're going to
see the same thing in this instance as
well. Let me stick with that and draw on
your expertise counseling executives. So
yes, this is a committee. This person's
responsibilities are going to include
trying to develop some consensus among
members of of this board. As you look at
those finalists, what conclusions can
you draw about their capacity to do
that? I I don't know if the president is
asking each of them about their
management style, but can we learn
anything about how they might run this
Fed from what they've done previously?
>> You know what's interesting is we've
really had different styles of
leadership over the past decade or so.
You know, Chairman Greenspan ran a very
centralized, he was a much different
leader. Ben Bernaki went much for
consensus. We didn't have Janet Yellen
in for very long. We're learning a lot
over what Chairman Powell is doing. You
know, and we can handle that. You know,
the Fed is an independent body.
Different leadership styles are are to
be expected and we've seen success from
different ones. You know, I'm not quite
sure what President Trump is looking for
in the new one, but we do know that he
very much values loyalty and that's
probably part of the decision. And
again, what we really want to see is
that whoever this pick is, once they're
in this new role, they recognize and
respect the importance of this federal
grant independence that is about looking
at the economy in a more holistic view,
not just narrowly into the
administration's view.
>> Davos is coming to an end.
>> John Lisa, what a week [laughter]
coming home. Um, I'm very curious what
you've observed about the way that
corporate leaders have comported
themselves at the the annual meeting of
the World Economic Forum this year.
There was that kind of signal moment
where Xandy Betos was interviewing Jaime
Diamond on stage. He kind of got ahead
of her anticipating what she was going
to ask him about. Gave this 20 second
answer about his outlook on Europe and
on trade policy. The next day he gets
slapped with this $5 billion lawsuit by
the president of the United States. We
had a piece on the terminal this week
just about the delicate dance that
executives are doing when it comes to to
President Trump. What did you observe
just about the way that they're acting,
the way that they responded to, yes, the
kind of geopolitical maneuvering we saw
from the president, just the way that
he's treating the corporate sector as
well?
>> It is a different environment, right?
And we saw this a bit last year. I think
one debate we're not having this year,
which we normally have the Friday after
Davos, is does Davos m? So, at least
this is one debate that we're not having
this year. You know, we are getting in a
new cyclone environment where there is a
lot of noise. you know, we are not even
at once talking about what happened, you
know, just a week and a half ago with
kind of the suing the of the um chairman
Powell. And I think we've almost
normalized this level of volatility in
the news cycle with these almost
personal attacks if you don't show
loyalty. That was absolutely a big story
coming out of Davos this year is a lot
of behind closed door meetings about how
different executives were handling the
administration, what they were doing. We
saw executives, I think Bloomberg even
reported on it, not leaving parties
until the president got there. It is a
different way of governing but look CEOs
what what side of the political aisle
you're on your number one priority is to
your stakeholders and shareholders and
you are doing things that you know are
reflect the stakeholder value of the
company and that is their role as a
fiduciary and we are seeing a lot of
that personal belief that you know this
will go away as well this current you
know suing of Jamie Diamond which I
think we got the news about this will
probably pass as the other ones do it is
just a very standard negotiation tactic
but this is just the new norm that we're
going to have to learn to operate
environments in and it is challenging,
you know, an additional day-to-day
pressure and already pretty heightened
economic and geopolitical environment
for executives to lead their
organizations through.
>> Hey Rebecca, a great note to end it on.
Thank you so much for joining us this
morning. Rebecca Homekiss of the London
Business School. David, that that's
literally the exact point you made to me
when we walked in this morning that for
everyone decrying does Davos matter?
Should I even attend it? Which I'm sure
you and I have both heard from many
business executives who have said that
it sure mattered this week. Yeah, I
think on on the whole spectrum there,
world leaders who were gathered there,
the speeches that they gave as we talked
about with Terry Haynes earlier in the
hour, from Zalinsky, from Carney, from
Trump, um it seemed like an important
place to be where important
conversations were happening and we can
debate the kind of outsized role that
President Trump played in light of the
whole Greenland story. Uh but this was a
place and a time that seemed to matter
more than it has in years past.
>> You you mentioned that tension with
executives. Ken Griffin in speaking to
Eric Shatzer basically called out
executives saying you should be speaking
out that yes, the president might troll
you. He'll have those moments, but he
does listen. I wonder if this is a
president, especially after the lawsuit
of Jaime Diamond, [music] whether he
really will listen. Okay, coming up
next, Margie Patel of Allspring Global
Investments, [music] Ashley Davis of S3
Group, British American Business CEO
Duncan Edwards [music] as we look at
transatlantic relationships, and Kher of
JP Morgan Asset Management with stocks
heading for another week of losses.
[music] You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
We've invested significantly in the US
economy. We've got one of the strongest
economies in the world today.
>> We're constructive that inflation's more
under control. People have been
predicting the US to be at some type of
decline from an economic point of view.
None of that's actually happened.
>> We have good inflation. We keep on
powering forward growth.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City, good morning.
The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. A week
cut short by a Monday holiday felt
anything but short. A 4-day stretch of
Greenland worries and Japanese market
drama weighing on US assets [music]
and a once sleepy Treasury market sees
yields hovering around the highest since
September, also boosted [music] by
stronger US data. All of that just as
the president says once again that
[music] his Fed pick could come any day.
I'm Danny Burer alongside David Gura.
And David, I mean, [music] of course,
we've heard this before that the Fed
pick could come any day, but maybe it
comes in the next week and overshadows
[music] the Fed decision.
>> Yeah, I think it's so important to look
at this through the prism of realism.
What is this person going to do or be
able to do? Anna Wong, our chief US
economist [music] at Bloomberg
Intelligence, writing about um Bloomberg
Economics, writing about Kevin Warish,
who has been seen for so much of his
career as somebody who's been an
agitator for reforms [music] within the
Fed. Would he in fact be able to do that
if he's placed in this position? Yes, he
was a Fed governor before, knows the
[music] way the mechanism works, but
again, going back to realism, one thing
to opine on what it should be doing,
another thing to kind of run this giant
mechanism of more than a thousand.
>> Sure. And when he was a Fed governor, to
be fair, and I believe Anna Wong points
that out, and I'm glad you brought that
piece up, he said that he was more
worried about inflation risks [music] in
2009, 7 months after Leman, when core
PCE inflation was at8% and employment
was at 9%. I think we know what the Fed
would be doing now in that circumstance.
But President Trump made it clear at
Davos, what he values the most is
loyalty. [music] A candidate that says
that they were lower rates and stick
with that when they get put in the job.
I don't know of the candidates who are
left who [music] will give him that
loyalty.
>> He wants that loyalty. Kevin Worsh among
others has known the president for a
long time. We know that Trump
interviewed Kevin Worsh [music] during
his first term to be the Fed chair,
ultimately passed on him. Again, this
looming question of what is [music] the
president looking for in these
conversations, which he says have ended
now. What's he been homing in on? What's
he been talking about? As you say, we're
on tents here waiting [music] what's
going to happen. But uh you know, this
has gone on for a very long time.
>> Okay. But last time he said these
conversations had ended. We get a story
a couple days later like Rick Reer
coming to Washington DC. So I wouldn't
discount these talks being over.
>> No finality yet. Yeah.
>> As for now, these markets headed for
another day of losses, undoing the rally
that we saw over the past two days. You
started this week with a sharp selloff.
So even though yes, the losses aren't
too bad today, we're still headed for
another weekly loss. [music] That would
make it two in a row. The dollar for the
most part has been weakening this week
though getting some life as the euro
falls versus the dollar that's at 11739.
Also getting some relief is your 10-year
yield. Those fall by just under two
basis [music] points at 422. And Ix
crude that heads higher as does natural
gas as the East Coast and much of this
[music] United States gears up for a
wintry weekend. Coming up on the show,
Margie Patel of Allspring Global
Investments as Wall Street's [music]
rally waiverss. Duncan Edwards of the
British American Business Council as the
EU rethinks its relationship with the US
and Kayur of JP Morgan seeing no
evidence of a sell America trade. We
begin this hour with stocks edging lower
ahead of a big week of earnings. Margie
Patel of Allspring Global Investments
writing earnings should be good for the
fourth quarter, but will it be good
enough for investors nerves about
slowing growth? And she joins us now
with more. One of the remarkable things
and you point out that the earnings have
been strong. So does Bloomberg
Intelligence. So far the beat rate is
something like 81%. But Margie stocks
have been punished even so the worst
underperformer performance for earnings
companies going back at least to 2017.
What gives for that disconnect?
>> Well, I think that that really there's
some nervousness. We've only started
earning season. So far it's been pretty
good, but when you look at the
fundamentals for the economy, that's
very very good. Uh the third quarter
just reported had GDP growth of 4.4%
uh which is well above average and it
should actually accelerate at least for
the first half of next year because of
the benefits of the changes in the uh
the tax law that will benefit consumers
and businesses. So I think it's
nervousness and I think you're seeing
concern about will the the tech names
the big tech names that have done so
well continue to have that price
earnings erosion which they've had for
the last few months and uh that'll
really be the key note is what do they
say I personally I think we may get a
surprise they may once again surprise us
with much better numbers than we thought
and that will set the the the tone I
think for a market stability and going a
bit higher. How much better can we get
than where we are now, Margie? With the
huge amount of capex that's committed,
what would represent an upside surprise
that allows a rally in big cap tech and
AI related names to continue?
>> Well, I think if they just keep on
saying what they've been saying, which
is they see extremely strong growth, uh
certainly they've had no trouble with uh
ample cash flow to fund those or to make
strategic borrowings, which we've seen
from time to time. So I think as long as
they don't dramatically shade their
outlook, which I think is very unlikely,
I think that uh we should see that
confidence come back into the markets
for those stocks.
>> Mark, I want to ask you how you're
balancing yes earnings with all the
geopolitical risk we've seen. I was
looking at Lori Calvacina's note, our
friend Lori Calvis of RBC Capital
Markets writing this morning that
earning season so far has been a bit of
a snooze, uh a bit slow to get going as
geopolitics and other macro matrics have
dominated the spotlight. How do you
weigh those two things together? What
have you learned over the course of this
last week about what's more important
here?
>> Uh well, I think the strength of the
domestic economy is which is most
important because we still are one of
the growth leaders uh even uh with all
the uh the issues that people are
concerned about and I think it's one of
the reasons why frankly defense stocks
have done very very well because of this
concern about what's happening overseas.
So uh we think that that's a great
sector and we think that's really what
the market is reflecting. The US economy
is strong. consumers are actually uh if
you if you exclude the bottom 20% are
actually really um pretty much near
their highs in terms of wealth and uh
and savings. So that's pretty positive.
>> You mentioned that personal spending. I
want to just home in on that a little
bit here and ask you how you see the
strength of the consumer. Yes. Now, but
but going forward and the degree to
which that's kind of supporting the
economy as a whole. We hear that that's
an old trope that the consumer is so
important here to the US economy. How is
he doing here in 2026?
Well, very very well because the
consumers uh most of them have real
estate which has done very well. They've
added to their liquid balances and they
have uh investments in the stock market
which is another sector that's done very
very well. So except for those who don't
have real estate, who don't have uh an
investment in the equity market,
everyone else is really at uh peak
actually peak liquidity um in in really
all se all all sectors, all segments of
the consumer. And actually, if you look
uh car sales look as if they've
accelerated to maybe something like 16
million cars a year. Uh again, that's a
pretty good number. That's a continuing
improvement. And my feeling is that
consumers don't buy cars if they don't
feel good about the future. So that says
to me consumers have backed up all that
liquidity by uh feeling optimistic and
buying cars. So we think the outlook for
consumers uh concern is really uh way
overblown for the actual reality.
Margie, it does feel though that the
idea of a Kshape and you're kind of
hinting at that what you're talking
about with those that own property and
cars. It feels extremely consensus. Day
after day, we have people on this
program and others who say it is a
K-shaped economy and largely because it
is true, but a consensus is always
concerning. What is the risk that the
Kshape alters? Either the bottom comes
up or the top breaks.
Uh well, I think you'll see a little
relief for that bottom 20% uh as we see
continue to see gradual increases in in
wages and stability in employment. So, I
think that they uh things have
stabilized and will gradually be
improving. There's nothing we can do
about the very high inflation we've had
over the last couple years uh because of
uh all the spending. That's just uh
that's just, you know, passing through
the system. We can't do anything about
that. we can just hope in the future
that we have a little better earnings
growth which I think we will and yeah
you're right it is it's hard to uh to
feel that uh we all want to be
contrarians but uh really I have to
think that the outlook still looks
pretty good for say the top 80% the top
60% of consumers and and again you point
out that those who own assets are doing
really well and and their cohort is
growing there was this Jeffre chart that
I saw Margie that was really astonishing
to me that retail traders now make up
over 20% % of trading volume. That is a
more dominant force than long only and
hedge funds. There's other data out
there from JP Morgan and the like just
showing that the amount that they've
been buying this week and this year that
they have been buying the dip. Does that
change at all the contours of this
market to have a bigger retail presence?
And again, it's one we've had before,
but it feels Margie like it's just keeps
growing.
>> Yes. Well, really it's it's frankly you
get better returns than if you went to
Vegas. So, I can see why a lot of people
are attracted to the market to so-called
play the market. And I think what that
does is is one introduce a lot of
liquidity, but it also includes a lot of
very very sharp and violent short-term
swings in stock prices that we we really
aren't used to seeing. A company says
one little uh comment and the stock can
go up or down 10 or 15%. Uh, which is
extraordinary. And it it really isn't
what I would say long-term so-called
sophisticated investors. it's more
people who are um somewhere around day
trading or trying to trade off the news.
And with trading costs so low, you can
see why that's attracted a lot of
players who want to get into uh get into
a market maybe they haven't been into.
So, I think it's just sort of frankly
meaningless noise. And when you have
these dips because of um some temporary
bad news that's interpreted, it's a good
opportunity if you're a basically a
long-term investor and you're not
bothered by the short-term volatility,
but just I think just basically
meaningless noise. Uh not a sector that
knows more about the market than
fundamental investors.
>> Um we gave glancing mention to to small
caps last hour. I think we've been
marking the records that the Russell
2000's been hitting over the course of
the last couple of weeks. And there is
this debate. Are small caps finally
having their their moment? And and
Margie, I wonder what you're seeing when
you look at at small caps as we make our
way here to the heart of of earning
season.
>> Well, I think you're right when you say
moment. I think they're having a moment.
It'll be short-term. And I think the
strength of the economy continue to be
with the larger companies have the
strength to compete in the US and
globally and have the strength to
reinvest and hire the best people. So,
uh, it's a, uh, a short-term little
correction in small caps, but I don't
see small caps really leading the market
because that's not where the growth
really and the strength is in the
economy. So, uh, I think it's nice to
have people make a little money in small
caps, but I think larger cap stocks are
where the uh, the bigger returns are
going to be over over 2026.
>> And some of that outperformance ebbing
this morning with small caps down nearly
210 of 1%. Margie, so fantastic to have
you on, Margie Vetel of Allspring Global
Investments. Let's now get you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning. Here
is your Bloomberg brief with Lizzie
Burton. Hey Lizzy. Hey Danny. Intel
shares tumbling in the pre-market. The
chipmakers first quarter earnings and
revenue projections both fell well short
of Wall Street estimates. On a
conference call with analysts, the
company's CEO saying it would take time
and resolve to turn the company around.
Meanwhile, a US court approving the
takeover of bankrupt rumba maker iroot
by its main Chinese supplier. But
creditors and the Chinese buy of PA
continue to engage with US regulators to
finalize the deal. The US government
filed a statement this week noting that
certain aspects of the transaction
[music]
may be subject to a national security
review. And Apple expanding the job of
hardware chief John Turnis to include
design work, one of the company's most
critical functions. sources [music]
telling us here at Bloomberg that the
move solidifies his status as a leading
contender to eventually succeed CEO Tim
Cook. At 50 years old, Turnis is the
youngest member of Apple's executive
[music]
team. And that should be my brief. Danny
>> Lizzie, thank you very much. We'll catch
up with you in the next 30 minutes or
so. Up next on this show, pushing for
peace.
>> I had a good meeting, but I've had, you
know, numerous good meetings with
President Zalinski and it doesn't seem
to happen. We want to stop this war and
that's why I think President Trump can.
He really can because he has dialogue
with Putin.
>> Ashley Davis of S3 Group joins us next.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Only one more trading day to go until
what I think I can speak for us all and
it is a much welldeserved weekend. An
exhausting week ending with equities
[music]
on the back foot after 2 days of gains
after sharp losses to greet the week for
little change this [music] morning down
just about one/10enth or 210 if you're
looking at the NASDAQ 100 a push and
pull between weak Intel earnings and
reporting that Nvidia will be able to
sell its H200 chips into [music] some
companies for China at least preps
ongoing for that for the bond market.
It's also a calm coming over as we
looked at yields breaking into a new
range this [music] week, trading around
the highest in September. We do get a
Fed rate decision next week. And the
president continues to tease a new pick
for Fed share. Will we get that? And
will that be another disruptor? We're
down just over [music] one basis point
for your tenure at 42272.
Your 30-year yield trades at 48172.
[music] Under surveillance this morning,
pushing for peace.
I had a good meeting, but I've had, you
know, numerous good meetings with
President Zilinski. Uh, it doesn't seem
to happen. Everybody's making
concessions to get it done.
>> We want to stop this war. And that's why
I think President Trump can. He really
can because he has dialogue with Putin.
Not everybody has dialogue. Just just
even dialogue.
>> Here's the latest. US, Russia, and
Ukraine holding trilateral talk today in
the UAE in what officials claim is the
first meeting of all three countries
since Moscow launched its invasion
nearly four years ago. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall and Oliver Crook join us for
team coverage on this. Tyler, let me
start with you and those comments from
Trump saying that a good meeting
happened with Zalinski. How much was the
dial move the needle in terms of getting
somewhere close to reaching agreements
that are on their way to ending a war in
Ukraine?
Yeah. Hey Danny. Well, ultimately
President Trump did characterize his
meeting as quote good, but he also said
that they didn't necessarily discuss any
new topics. Rather, the Ukrainian
President Zalinsky was underscoring his
desire to reach a deal. Now, it is
significant as you mentioned that we are
going into this weekend of trilateral
talks on the technical level between the
US, Russia and Ukraine. And that really
does come after a flurry of diplomatic
efforts in recent days. this meeting
between Zalinsky and President Trump
appeared to be a lastminute addition
considering that Zillinsky had earlier
said that he was unlikely to attend the
World Economic Forum. But fresh off that
meeting with the US, he gave what was
considered to be a stunning speech. Our
redhead on the Bloomberg terminal read
that Zalinsky had tore in to European
allies over allegations that they
haven't done enough to crack down on
Russia. He cited, for example, the
European sanctions regime against the
Kremlin. And Zalinsky also brought up
this concern that European allies, he
said, had been distracted recently over
President Trump's uh recent escalation
and then an apparent resolution when it
comes to Greenland. So, the hope is now
that that is apparently off the table
for now in at least some sense, there's
going to be this renewed focus as US
officials have repeatedly told us that
we are getting close to potentially
signing documents that could end the
war. We keep hearing them say that we
are about 90% of the way there. We know
there has been progress made when it
comes to US backed security guarantees
for Ukraine, but there are still big
questions on the table. One is uh some
more particulars around what that
funding is going to look like to rebuild
Ukraine. Though the EU Commission
President Ursula Vander Lion said
earlier this week that she was touting
this package that is being drawn up
alongside the US. But uh Danny and
David, the biggest question, the biggest
sticking point still remains that
potential for territory concessions in
the eastern Donbos region of the
country.
>> Let me turn to you Tyler bring up Ursa
Vanderline. We heard from her last
night. You were burning the midnight oil
with all of these European leaders as
they had this emergency summit on the
heels of that that Davos meeting. Um and
it was really principally here to plan a
path forward after what had happened
when uh it came to Greenland and and the
president's threat on on Denmark and
Greenland sovereignty here. Just give us
the update of what came out of that. I'm
curious. There was this conversation
about whether that trade deal was going
to be codified at that meeting. Did that
in fact happen? What was the substance
of the talks that unfold in Brussels
over the course of the night?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So the sort of main palpable
takeaway, the concrete takeaway after EU
leaders met here in this building last
night until quite late in the evenings
that it seems that the European
Parliament will in fact move forward now
on that trade deal with the United
States which as you know was suspended a
little bit earlier this week after those
threats of tariffs by the Trump
administration to these European nations
for backing uh basically dominion uh by
Denmark over Greenland. So that was
going to be sort of the main concrete
takeaway. I think the other takeaways
are kind of the lessons that we now have
to sort of appraise after a week of what
we saw between the United States uh and
Europe. And I think that there is a
degree to which for many of these
European leaders, the damage that has
been done over the last week is in some
way permanent. It doesn't change the
fundamental sort of geopolitical physics
between the EU and the United States.
The EU and European countries are
completely dependent on the US for a
number of different things, but I have
to say that the level of trust now has
gone too close to zero. So we've been
sort of preparing for this moment for
the last 12 months. But I think for
European leaders, what they got this
week for the first time really is that
this is not a drill. That basically the
United States is ready to weaponize a
number of different things that the
Europeans, you know, thought was
potentially a possibility. This week
they reckoned with what that would
actually look like. And for the
Europeans that means how are you going
to plot the way forward? And in order to
plot an effective way forward, you need
to do so with a little bit more uh
backbone I think than they have been
doing over the last few months. That's
sort of a vote in the sort of direction
of how Emanuelan M has conducted himself
basically drawing a sort of line with
the Americans. But the other thing key
David as ever and we talk about this all
the time but sincerely true at this
moment is European unity. You have this
intra European dialogues and issues
between countries that often sort of
prevent things from moving forward at
the EU level. You also have a great
amount of uh domestic weakness and
fragmentation for some of the biggest
players in Europe such as Germany and
France. The question is, will they be
able to keep things together in order to
ch to push ahead in what is an
undoubtedly much more confrontational
United States? And I think today after
this sort of week that we've had, the
transatlantic uh uh relationship has
really sustained some permanent damage.
>> Oliver Tyler, thank you both for your
excellent reporting. All throughout this
week, Bloomberg's Oliver Crook and Tyler
Kendall. Joining us now is Ashley Davis,
a partner with S3 Group and a former
special assistant in the Department of
Homeland Security. Ashley, one of the
developments we got in the very early
hours of this morning was an idea of a
trilateral talk between Ukraine, Russia,
and the US supposedly taking place in
Dubai for the first time since the
invasion. What are your expectations for
that?
>> Well, first of all, good morning, and it
has been a wild week. There has been so
much that has happened on many different
fronts this week, but this is something
that I think that the president has been
aiming for for a long time. Obviously,
this is the stickiest issue that he's
had. He thought he could end this war
quote on day one when when he came into
office, it's been much more difficult.
But actually the three of them or the
three countries sitting down in the UAE
is something that shows me that they're
farther along in their process than they
have been to this point. Obviously,
we've had several meetings with Sinsky.
We've had se two meetings at least with
Putin and the president has been doing
this negotiation kind of in public. And
what I've been really watching over the
last 6 weeks to two months is how he's
pulled these negotiations back out of
the the public eye and really use Jared
Kushner and Wickoff to do this silently
and then potentially come up with a
deal. Also this morning, what came out
was the land issue and and what
concessions will be made. And I think
that will continue to be the sticking
point. But listen, so many people,
thousands and thousands and thousands of
people have been dying. I think that
everyone in America, Europe want this to
wants this to end and including the
president of the United States.
>> Something that struck me over the course
of the week and it has been a wild one
as you said is just the level of
frustration that we heard from so many
leaders, President Zalinsky among them,
I think from President Trump as well
with how this process is is unfolding.
Um, and I wonder as we hear Steve
Wickoff talking to our colleagues saying
that they're 90% of the way there, it
does seem like that 10% is proving to be
extremely difficult. How do they
translate that palpable frustration into
progress here? How optimistic are you
that that's going to happen? You
mentioned the land issue that has been
an issue over the course of these seven
meetings that Steve Wickoff has had. I'm
just curious of how how you see this
having been advanced, how much needs to
be advanced, and again how you make that
translation between frustration with how
long this has dragged on, how little has
changed with needing to make some
action.
I thought yesterday's speech by Zalinsky
was very interesting and I I I obviously
thought that that was something that has
been talked a lot with President Trump
about in regards to the EU and what and
what Oliver was saying is so true
because the EU is kind of going at this
as a group and all the different
factions within the EU. It's so
difficult. It's unlike America where you
really have one person that can make the
decision of the support. you have all
these different countries that have to
come together and what that does is it
slows down um Europe's and the EU's
support and also I feel and I don't
can't think of a better word to say
there's so much hand ringing around what
Europe can do because of all that
coordination so I thought that Zinsk's
comments were very very very
important and also you have to realize
how how frustrated the president has
been in regards to Europe still relying
on all the Russian oil and they have
really not done as many sanctions as
Oliver uh mentioned as well to kind of
take that control out of Europe. And so
this has been a frustration to the
president. I feel and and Europe may not
feel this way that Europe has really
looked at the United States to kind of
end this war and I think the president
is trying but there has to be
concessions on both sides. Going back to
your original question though is that I
would think or maybe I'm just hoping
that going to um the EUA with a meeting
with the three of them has some sort of
indication that [music] there'll be
process of progress.
>> Well, we'll see what comes out of it.
Ashley, thank you so much for joining
us. That's Ashley Davis of [music] S3
Group. Coming up, British American
Business CEO Duncan Edwards as pressure
builds on transatlantic trade. Plus,
Bonnie Quinn with your morning movers as
Intel sinks off the back of its latest
earnings report.
[music]
Congratulations. You've made it well
almost to the end of the week. Here's
how your equity market is shaping up.
Another day of losses after two days of
[music] gains so far this week and we
entered in a really ugly note and we are
ending lower on the week. I should note
that small caps underperforming this
morning down 210 of 1% but David you
mentioned this earlier it has been
outperformance new high eight record
closes for [music] 2026 so far
outperforming 14 days straight that is
the longest streak of outperformance for
small caps in the [music] past 30 years
>> Mark Patel pouring some water on my
question about that but yes as I say
we've noticed over the course of these
last few weeks movement in the small
caps [music] we can debate sort of the
the magnitude of that or the importance
of it but it's something I think that we
have noted and we'll continue to not
>> I I loved Markey's response [music] she
was like cute for you if you've made
money here on the small caps, but uh
that ain't going to leave the market.
>> Elsewhere, the bond market is putting up
better numbers this morning. You're
looking at yields dropping just around
one and a half basis points for your
10-year yield. They had been trending
higher, dominated uh by what's happening
in Greenland and Japan. They're at 42292
this morning. And just quickly want to
point out what the yen has done. It's
been a wild ride this morning. Uh dollar
yen spikes after [music] a Bank of uh
Japan decision. And all of a sudden you
get some undue strength from the yen.
There were chatters of maybe
intervention. But David, one thing does
stand that it does feel like Japanese
markets have had an outsized role in
international markets this week.
>> Yeah, again the comments from Ken
Griffin of Citadel in Davos talking
about the primacy [music] of Japan, what
we can learn from what's been happening
in the Japanese market and economy uh
ringing across the world today and I
think that's going to continue.
>> And Scott Besson also this week saying
he had had conversations with his
counterparts [music] in Japan as well.
It is 2 hours away from your cash open.
Let's get to your morning movers. With
that is Vonnie Quinn. Good morning,
Bonnie.
>> Good morning, Danny. Well, we are seeing
a bit of a buy on the news event here
for Nvidia after Bloomberg reported
earlier that China officials have told
the hyperscalers in China, Tencent, BU,
[music] Bans that they can start
preparing orders for the Nvidia H200
chip. Now, we had been sort of expecting
this, but there was a lot of over and
back. So, you can see [music] the stock
is reacting well today, as are the
stocks of its suppliers like TSMC.
[music] Now that is also helping the
tape improve of course even though
futures are pointed lower. So we'll see
what happens. There has to be a formal
announcement yet from China but at the
moment [music] those orders can be
prepared. And we also know that some of
these companies told for example Nvidia
that they were going to order 200,000 of
these chips. So that's [music] not a a
nothing burger for Nvidia. It's a
different story for Intel. It's giving
up all its gains of the week. There have
been investor enthusiasm before earnings
and we also saw of course that $5
billion investment from Nvidia in the
fourth quarter into Intel. The stock
plummeting today after Li Bhutan said
there were manufacturing problems in the
quarter. Intel just really disappointing
investors. Neil Campling of Bloomberg
News earlier telling me that just to put
a number on it, Intel is now 117th the
size of Nvidia. So it has fallen far far
far from grace from where it was when it
had its biggest position in the
semiconductor industry in the United
States. It's gone [music] through three
CEOs in that shape and we'll see what
happens as a result of these earnings.
One stock that is though improving after
earnings is Schlumberj was actually down
slightly now but it did beat on the top
and bottom lines. It also increased
[music] its dividend to 29 12 cents a
share. Not quite as much as Bloomberg
had projected but this stock though is
up 28.5% just year to date. That's just
January alone. Of course, [music] some
of this is the Venezuela news. It still
has a presence there. And if some of the
other oil majors do start working again
in Venezuela, Slumber or SLB as it's
called now, will be called upon for its
services. But also, the CEO said that
some of the 2025 headwinds are now
behind the company and it expects more
rigs to be drilling next year [music] in
the Middle East in particular. Danny
>> Bonnie, thank you very much. We'll catch
up with you in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, President Trump
Trump withdrawing Canada's invitation to
the Board of Peace after Prime Minister
Mark Carney's speech warning against
economic coercion by the world's
superpowers. Carney accepting the
president's invitation to join the board
just last week. Elsewhere, Bank of
America and Croup are looking into
options for a new credit card with a 10%
rate as President Trump pushes for a
one-year cap on interest. Offering new
cards would be easier for the banks than
reworking terms on conditions and
existing cards. David, it means we're
finally getting a a literal trump card.
>> A literal trump card, which Kevin Hasset
has talked about, of course, but you
know, you and I get these offers to, you
know, have a 0% interest rate for x
amount of time. It does feel like we're
kind of nibbling around the margins
here. Is this doing what the likes of
Senator Elizabeth Warren and others have
suggested, which is imposing a longer
term, more detailed cap here. Uh we had
that conversation just a little while
ago about the way that executives are
kind of comporting themselves around
what the president says here, too.
Another incident of that happening, I
think.
>> Yeah. I mean, maybe Jaime Diamond is
going to rethink his kind of call out to
like, why don't you do those cards in
Massachusetts or Vermont if you're if
you're so bullish on this ability, a
real clash with the president over the
past couple days.
>> $5 billion clash.
>> A very good way to put it, the $5
billion clash. Although I think his pay
did increase recently, so maybe he's a
little bit Maybe he's a little bit more.
Yeah, maybe he's a little bit more
insulated. [laughter] Maybe five billion
is nothing. The other thing on
everybody's mind this weekend, at least
if you live in the East Coast and the
Northeast, is a winter storm. It's
expected to deliver heavy snow and ice
to more than 150 million people across
roughly two dozen states. Forecasts
predict the storm will plunge Texas into
a deep freeze before moving eastward
towards New York City and Boston and a
tiny little violin for everyone
including myself who would plan to
travel this weekend and will no longer
be doing that.
>> Looked it up on the old iPhone. 14 to 17
inches predicted here uh in New York.
But I as you know come from North
Carolina um where they're predicting
eight inches of snow which is crazy and
having grown up there like that's it
will upend.
>> But is like infrastructure prepared for
that? Is there any southern states?
>> No. And I think there's there's a sense
too there could be an ice storm on top
of that. Um I remember well from my
childhood like weeks of no school
because there are no trucks or plows to
get anything off the road.
>> By the way, part of the reason I'm not
traveling this week is cuz I was
supposed to be in Vermont and the
expected low is 17°. That was worse for
me than hunker down, put on a fire,
drink a hot chocolate, maybe something
stronger, especially after this week.
Let's get more into that. Turning to
trade, the EU is planning to ratify its
trade deal with the US after President
Trump walked back his threats to impose
tariffs on European allies. Bloomberg's
Brendan Murray joins us now. Brendan,
the feeling was is that tensions with
Europe once again reached a fever pitch
after they had ebbed for the back half
of last year. Where do we stand now?
Yeah, it feels like both sides after a
really whiplash sort of week are walking
away feeling like they they both came
away with a win. You have President
Trump uh going back to Washington saying
they're going to give me everything I
want on Greenland, although a lot of
those details still need to be worked
out uh about sovereignty and territorial
integrity. And you have the Europeans
saying, "Look, we threatened to uh to
retaliate against the tariffs that he
was threatening against us with a lot of
our strongest uh weaponry. We did it in
a unified way and President Trump
ultimately backed down from those tariff
threats." So the the European leaders
met here in Brussels uh late into the
evening last night and the message that
we got from them when they came out
looking very tired after a a very hectic
week uh was that they can no longer
trust the US the way they used to trust
the US. the transatlantic relationship
is going to undergo
a a rethink and the Europeans are are
talking a lot more than they have in the
past about strategic autonomy,
independence, uh and and and trade
diversification away from their
reliability uh their reliance on the US.
So, uh they they the the Europeans
really feel they got burned this week
about that. You know, they've got the
the the war in Ukraine on their eastern
flank and then you've got President
Trump on their Arctic flank coming in
saying, "I want a piece of Greenland."
And so they're feeling it from all sides
and they're saying, "Look, all the
platitudes that we've given to strategic
autonomy in the past, we really got to
move forward with some actual action on
it now."
>> He just wanted a piece of ice. Brendan,
thank you very much. That's Bloomberg's
Brendan Murray. Duncan Edwards, the CEO
of British American Business, writing,
quote, "While a positive outcome to end
the week, the episode itself has been
concerning for business." And Duncan
joins us now. Duncan, thank you so much
for being here to be here.
>> You you have a lot of companies that
fall under your umbrella, around 500
both here in the US and in the UK. What
has been the mood among the members that
you've spoken to after the events of
this week? Well, I think first of all,
people are relieved, of course, that
there's uh the additional tariffs that
were at least threatened by the
president at the start of the week
aren't going to happen. You know,
honestly, I think in hindsight, we never
really believed that those tariffs were
going to happen. I mean, the the the the
premise for them was so tenuous. Um, you
know, nothing to do with trade at all.
So given that the AIPA tariffs are being
challenged anyway um through a case in
in the Supreme Court, this always felt
like a real stretch. So um you know when
I was talking to media on Monday, I said
I didn't think these were these were
going to be introduced and that's you
know everyone's relieved that they
haven't. I mean you have to take the
threat seriously. Uh but in the end it
was it was unlikely. How good are
companies getting or how good are they
at dealing with these threats of of
additional tariffs that as you point out
are kind of mercurial maybe not grounded
in national security risks. We believe
that the Supreme Court to decide what
what is and what isn't. Uh but we've now
been through it. Yes, the first term now
a year of the second. How are executives
navigating that particular kind of
uncertainty?
>> Well, I think there's there's there's
two parts two answers to that question.
The first is I think everyone is now
pretty certain that the tariffs some
level of tariffs are going to stay. So
business models have been rebuilt to
assume that the cost of exporting to the
US is now kind of permanently or at
least semi-permanmanently higher than it
used to be. Um so business models have
been rebuilt around that. Um you know
the the the the threats of increases on
tariffs is not really much you can do
about that uh in the short term. Um you
know people can try and time uh
shipments and things like that. That was
never going to be possible in this case.
you know, 10 days notice, you can't
rearrange uh shipping and and there has
been, I think, a a a longerterm
re-evaluation of supply chain. So, that
part is absolutely real. Um so, there
has been some moves um to increase
manufacturing inside the US. That is
real. Uh maybe not as much as the
administration is claiming, but there's
there's definitely some there. Um, so
there has been some d-risking of supply
chains in order to mitigate what is seen
as a potentially longerterm trend to
having more protectionist policies both
here and and potentially in other blocks
like the EU as well.
>> Um, Prime Minister Mark Carney, I think,
gave a lot of professors of political
theory an opportunity to stroke their
beards, maybe write some books and
dissertations about what he had to say
in terms of broader geopolitics. on the
corporate level, in the private sector,
how did what he said resonate
particularly about the role that these
middle middle economies, middle
countries can play here, the way that
trade relationships and multilateral
relationships are going to be kind of
redefined or uh change over the course
of these next many years because of what
we've seen happen.
>> Yeah, honestly, I would be guessing to
try and answer that on behalf of the
executives of corporations. So look, I I
think there is a re-evaluation going on
amongst um corporations about how they
deal with government and you know I
think most people are trying to keep
their heads down to be honest. Um you
know you most business leaders want to
get on with business and I think you
know you can see the sort of activist
approach of this president uh which is
so unusual. Um you know you you
mentioned the the issue with um JP
Morgan and Jamie Diamond recently. I
mean, if you can, keeping your head down
seems to be the right approach. Best not
to go to court if you don't have
>> I was going to say as a member of the
media, I, you know, somewhat foolishly
think that everybody wants to come on
with us and talk about their business
and be outspoken. The reticence that
you're experiencing of wanting to keep
their head down, it was something that
Ken Griffin pushed back on this week in
speaking with our Eric Shatser, saying
that they should be more vocal, that
they need the president's ear. Are any
businesses willing to do that or is it
literally across the board? Everyone
you're speaking to is like I do not want
to get involved.
>> I think you the contrast between you
know in in previous years when uh
companies and CEOs have felt they need
to
contribute to the debate about social
issues or cultural issues completely
gone.
>> Do you think that's a bad or a good turn
for business?
>> You know my instinct is it's probably a
a good thing. I think businesses should
focus on business. I mean that's my
natural instinct as a a kind of former
executive. So um you know and trade
associations like us we have a role to
play in that. So we our job is to try
and represent the views of business um
on some of these issues. But for us too
we're we're trying to focus on kind of
the business issues rather than the
social or cultural issues.
>> Get us up to speed on where things stand
with US UK trade. I think it's been
about six or seven months since I was in
Kenanascus watching Kier Stormer there
with Donald Trump as Donald Trump
dropped that trade agreement. I put it
on Instagram at the Benny Hill theme as
they kind of picked up the pieces and
put it back together. Where do things
stand now and how would you kind of
grade the quality of that relationship?
Kier Starmer wasn't front and center I
don't think at at Davos, but certainly
was critical of what the president said
with his adventurism when it comes to
>> Yeah, Kier didn't go to Davos this year.
Um
>> I I would I would grade it like a sort
of B stroke C. I mean there were um
there there was an agreement signed um
the so-called economic prosperity deal
um back in May which set the tariffs the
10% uh baseline tariffs but in that
agreement which was effectively anou
aheads of terms rather than a properly
papered document um it set out a lot of
kind of future negotiations that were
intended to happen and
quite broadranging and potentially
ambiguous statements in that document
and since then both sides have been
trying to turn that into a proper legal
treaty
>> and it's been very difficult because the
>> the expectations around what that
actually meant what that implied are
quite different so from the US side I
think there was an expectation that
there would be a wholesale change of
attitude towards some areas of UK policy
around standards
um food food and agricultural product um
uh imports uh data issues the
relationship with the EU a whole a whole
range of things whereas I think from the
UK side thought no no this is just a
sort of we'll tweak things but there's
no kind of wholesale readjustment and so
that's led to frankly an impass so
there's a lot of there was then a
technology uh prosperity deal which was
a which again a very two-pageou
um when the president was in uh in uh in
checkers um which again hasn't been
negotiated properly and then finally
there's a farmer deal which was
announced before Christmas um which
looks extremely promising but again we
haven't seen the the the details of this
agreement we've seen two contrasting
press announcements from each side which
almost describe two different deals so
there's a I think there's a bit of
frustration on both sides. Um, on a
practical level, kind of business is
just getting on with it. So, you know,
trade and investment continues to
happen.
>> Duncan, thank you so much for your time
this morning. I hope you are able to
hunker down and stay warm this weekend.
>> I'm meant to be flying to London on
Monday at 8:30 in the morning. So,
>> you will be in our thoughts [laughter]
this weekend, Duncan. Good luck to you.
Yeah, we'll see you on Monday. I have a
feeling. Duncan Edwards of the British
American Business. Thank you so much.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here with your
Bloomberg brief is Lizzie Burton. Hey,
Lizzie.
Hey Danny, Elon Musk SpaceX has lined up
four banks to lead its IPO as it moves
forward with plans for the biggest
listing ever. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the company sees [music] Bank
of America, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan,
and Morgan Stanley in senior roles,
although no final decisions have been
made. SpaceX is targeting an IPO as soon
as this year that would value the
company at about 1.5 [music] trillion.
Elsewhere, Lululemon's Get Low leggings
are back for sale despite being
see-through. [music]
With fresh disclaimers, customers are
being told to size up and pair the
leggings with skin tone seamless
underwear. This after the founder Chip
[music] Wilson derided the board, saying
it was a quote total operational
failure. And finally, JP Morgan Chase
CEO Jamie Diamond earned $43 million
last year. According to a regulatory
filing, Diamond's [music] total
compensation increased 10% in 2025. He
received a base salary of $1.5 million
and [music] $41.5 million in incentives.
Diamond is one of the highest paid
[music] bosses in corporate America. And
that's your boat brief. Danny Lizzie,
thank you so much. Up next, not sold on
the sell America trade.
>> The US has been really an incredibly
strongly performing market, strong
economy. Reallocating away from the US
in the face of that probably not the
smartest [music] choice to make. K her
of JP Morgan Asset Management will be
joining us next. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance [music]
[music]
under surveillance this morning. not
sold on the sell America trade.
>> The US has been really an incredibly
strongly performing market, strong
economy. People have been predicting the
US to be some type of decline from an
economic point of view, recessions. None
of that's actually happened. The US bond
market is still the most liquid market
in the world and it is still the closest
thing to a risk-free asset that there
actually is. Reallocating away from the
US in the face of that probably [music]
not the smartest choice to make. Here's
the latest economic data showing
resilience in the US reinforcing trader
expectations that the Fed will delay
cutting interest rates on W Wednesday
Wednesday's meeting. Joining us now is
Kay Herur of JP Morgan Asset Management.
Kate, there was a serious rupture at
least to start the week. I mean, okay,
rupture might be extreme, but we were in
such
>> borrow.
Yeah, it wasn't a transition. It was a
rupture actually. Was it a transition or
was it a rupture that we saw this week
in the bond market?
>> Wow. I don't even know how to answer
that, Danny. [laughter]
Um, so I started Tuesday morning
thinking we were going to have a pretty
quiet week. Not a lot of economic data.
Most people in Davos, same for you all.
I'm thinking it's going to be a quiet
week and it hasn't even ended up that
way. Here we are Friday. Markets seem to
have settled down and I'm delighted to
be here. But it's you've got an
interesting I'm going to say eclectic
group of people on this morning. You're
talking trade. You're talking We've got
a meteorologist on 8:15. I'm pretty
excited about that.
>> Okay. You're hired to be our our
promoter. I love that.
>> Okay. [laughter] Sure. I'm I'm happy to
do that. So I I think we've got to take
a step back. Markets focus on
fundamentals and we don't have a lot of
major fundamentals. Sure, we had GDP and
at 4.4% yesterday, but we don't have a
lot of fundamentals right now until the
next employment report comes out on
February 6. So we've got two weeks, not
a lot going on. And we all know that
volatility both in equity and in fixed
income markets has been relatively low.
So you get some I mean I don't think any
of us expected to be thinking about Leif
Ericson and Eric the Red this week and I
think those types of moves make people
stop think whoa what's going on this
week. So I don't think it was a rupture
I think it was a reminder that when
valuations are full and unexpected
events and news come in everybody takes
a pause and reassesses. Let me pull a a
strand from Davos and I know you're
remitting it's the US but I [laughter]
want to ask about treasuries because we
had this Danish pension fund offloading
a lot of treasuries and they said oh
it's just part normal course of action
here you had Scott Bess and the treasury
sector being pretty blas about that you
know who cares if Denmark does this you
heard something very different from the
president who was very upset about the
prospect of the European private sector
retaliating against the the US how do
you view that the the chance that this
could all backfire and have
ramifications on the US Treasury market?
So look, I I I think really to Danny's
point, what's reemerged this week or for
part of this week is is the sell America
trade back on and the Danish pension
treasury comment is really a subset of
that and that's obviously unnerving to
the markets. But I think we've got to
take a step back and look at what the
fundamentals are in the market and let's
look for example at the US investment
grade. Actually, two things. First off,
we had a 20-year US Treasury auction
this week. Treasury the 20-y year is not
the kind of most popular there's not a
lot of no exactly you you just proved my
point [laughter]
and yet enduser demand in the 20-year
auction was I think record strength so
my second data point to say sell America
is really not enforced this week is um
look at the IG market so we've had $170
billion of issuance in the US investment
grade market year to date and what have
spreads done in the US investment grade
market, they tightened and hit a a
record since I think 1998 yesterday at
72 basis basis points over. So you hear
a lot of rhetoric about about sell
America, but when you look at the facts
and what's going on in markets, we're
seeing strong flows into US fixed income
markets and we're seeing strength across
investment grade and treasury auctions.
So we'll have another opportunity to
look at this next week. We've got two,
five, seven-year note auctions next week
and you know we continued to look at
that but we see no evidence of it so
far.
>> Okay, only about a minute here but also
reflecting on the past week a lot of the
bond market was moves was attributed to
geopolitics. How much of it was just
about Japan and just about the rise in
GGB yields? I
>> I think that's a great point and I think
it really was. I think if you look
broadly, global bond markets are very
correlated. And so if one market, maybe
to quote the president, if one market
gets the yips, then I think it's natural
for other markets to get the yips. And I
think when you look at the 10-year
Treasury, the 10-year Treasury has been
sitting between 375 and 4 and a quarter
for months and months and months, and
it's just sat in this night range. You
get a little bit hotter inflation
number, and it um hits to the high end
of the range, you get a cooler
employment number. We head to the weaker
end of the range. We're sitting there.
We've been testing that 420. We breach
the 423 level which is a 200 day moving
average and then you get the yips from
the Japanese market and everybody gets a
little unsettled and you throw in a
Danish pension and you get that. I think
what's happened towards the end of the
week is we're settling down toward okay
actually we're in a low higher [music]
low fire market until we get evidence
that across corporate America you see
strength in earnings. So until [music]
we get some evidence that we've got some
substantial weakening in the employment
market or some reaceleration [music] in
inflation, I think yields are pretty
attractive here.
>> K, thank you so much.
>> You want to stay for the weather
segment?
>> I I'm going to watch it on my own
terminal. I'm going to head back
[laughter] to the office. But thanks in
importance. It goes K and then our
meteorologist
>> meteorologist.
[music]
>> US markets are the deepest and most
liquid markets. We still see a lot of
upside opportunity in US markets.
>> I don't think we'll see a massive
correction. The US has been really an
incredibly strongly performing market.
We continue to be positive on the US.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Bramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Good Friday morning. Only one more
trading day until what's expected to be
a very wintry weekend [music] here in
New York City. And for a lot of you out
there, US stocks set to close out their
first back-to-back weekly loss [music]
since the summer. The tech
underperformance also dragging on as the
Mag 7 turns into the lag 7. Please
forgive [music] me for that one.
[laughter] Adding to the pain this
morning, Intel earnings as the stock
spectacular [music] run hits a
roadblock. David, the past year up 150%
post earnings down 13% in the
pre-market. [music]
>> I mean, just fascinating to continue to
watch this stock and look at its
history. We've talked about that over
the course of the morning. Vonnie
bringing it up as well. This used to be
a behemoth inside everything famously.
Uh and really [music] having a difficult
time getting its footings. We've seen
Nvidia kind of surge and overpower it
here. Look, it has new leadership. I
think [music] still declare that this
new CEO can declare that. Uh but really
having a difficulty here in terms of
manufacturing meeting demand and trying
to figure out [music] as I asked about
sort of what this company is exactly
going for.
>> And I love that question. And it's also
a company that now has the backing of
the government. And this just shows that
[music] backing an extra monetary
firepower does not guarantee good
results. But it also speaks to this
moment we're in where so many stocks
have run up and there's a lot of
assumptions baked in [music] and those
feel increasingly fragile.
>> Absolutely. But getting back to what you
said, I think the conversation
surrounding the US taking a stake was
what will that mean for this company's
competitiveness, its ability to [music]
compete. I think for those who were
raising that concern, they have a lot of
grist here for that argument. And
there's a lot more questions being asked
about what does US involvement in
general in corporate America mean
[music] for this market though it is
concentrated on those losses from Intel
but getting a little bit of a boost from
Nvidia outperforming this morning. Our
reporters suggesting that China is
allowing at least some companies to
prepare to order H200 chips. You're
looking at [music] the S&P future
session down only onetenth of 1%. The
euro weakens after it had been
strengthening [music] against the dollar
for most of the week. You're also
looking at a 10-year yield batting off
some of the weakness of yesterday. Yes,
we've broken above 423. We were [music]
just talking to Kur about this at the
Cell America trade. Maybe don't buy on
that one. And NX crude that's up by 1.9%
[music] this morning. Coming up in the
next hour, Sevita Sabranian of Bank of
America Securities says stocks are
edging lower. Aaron McLaclin of the
Conference Board with big banks weighing
President Trump's cap on credit card
rates. and Fiona Sinata of Forex.com
looking ahead to next week's Fed
meeting. We begin this hour with stocks
edging lower, closing out a volatile
week on Wall Street. Sevita Sabramanian
of Bank of America Securities expecting
the S&P 500 to end the year at 7100,
writing, "Our economist above consensus
GDP forecast and our above consensus
earnings forecast are more consistent
with middling equity returns. Thus, we
have a target for the S&P 500 that is
lower than most." And Sevita joins us
now. Sevita, this is a wonderful view
because it is both bullish and cautious
at the [laughter] same time.
>> Where does that cautious kind of
hedging, isn't it? Um, well, look, I'm
not I I'm not necessarily bearish on
equities, but I do think that
expectations right now are much higher
than they've been over the last three
years of double-digit aggressive gains
in the market. So, here's the deal. The
market usually has its best performance
coming out of these disaster averted
scenarios where you think everything is
going wrong and then you get a sigh of
relief or some kind of a break. Think
2009 even you know postcoid. Um so I
think that where we are right now is a
market that has a lot of expectations
baked in. The multiples are high. We've
got, you know, a lot of tech companies
that used to be asset light and
innovators now becoming more clunky and
asset intensive. You know, our view is
earnings are going to be great. You
know, the economy is going to be great,
but you're going to see significant
multiple compression. And this is
actually right in line with history. If
you look back over time and you look at
years with above trend earnings growth
and above trend GDP growth, those have
actually been the worst years for
equities. um based on average return. So
it's not necessarily, you know, the
market doesn't react to what's
happening. It anticipates what's going
to happen. And I think that's where we
are now is a market that's already
anticipated the good stuff that's about
to happen. It's it's such a good point
because not only are valuations rich,
but all the data of ownership of this
equity market feels really stretched,
too. I know your team in the latest fund
manager survey put out that hedges just
don't exist right now for equities and
equity correlated assets. To what degree
does that in itself just represent a
risk for this market? Yeah, I think that
is a risk and in fact I think what's
even more risky is that a lot of prior
previously uncorrelated asset classes
have grown more correlated in this
liquidity injection that we saw in 2025.
So here's the other kind of risk is
going forward we're kind of as good as
it gets when it comes to liquidity. The
Fed has been cutting profits have been
accelerating. We've got the government
buying stocks. We've got individual
investors buying stocks. Everybody's
buying stocks and now we're starting to
see maybe a less good backdrop. So
you've got yes, you've got tax receipts
probably going to be healthy, but
everybody's talking about that. Nobody
is talking about the fact that capital
gains on short-term uh trading are
probably going to be a big draw on a lot
of investors wallets. So, I think
there's puts and takes for everything,
but the fact that everyone's talking
about the good stuff and not the bad
stuff makes me worried about the next uh
the next 12 months.
>> Larry Frink at Davos saying he doesn't
just believe we're not in a bubble. He
sincerely believes we're not in a
bubble. You've talked about there being
an air an AI air pocket.
>> Air pocket.
>> So, not not as frothy perhaps as a
bubble might be. Explain what you mean
by that. And I think this is an earning
season when in light of what's happened
over the last few months, there are
people who are wanting to see kind of
proof in the pudding. want there to be
kind of measurable examples of how this
is playing out or likely to
>> by when do we need to see something
manifest and AI actually leading to
gains in this market?
>> No, exactly. And I think we're
comfortable with the idea that this is
going to take a while, right? It's not
easy to get all that power like set up
to run all these chips. But the problem
is when you look at these companies, you
know, a year ago they were spending
their own cash on capex. Now they're,
you know, they're being forced to go to
capital markets, raise debt, and that
does a couple of things. It increases
their cost of capital. It increases
their interest rate sensitivity, and it
also just suggests that we're further
along, and if sales don't keep up with
this capex, they're going to have to
borrow more. It's starting to look a
little bit like the telecom crisis of of
the late '9s where, you know, these were
highly levered companies. Today's tech
is much cleaner, much much more healthy,
but we're get we're the direction of
travel right now just feels less good
rather than better. So I think that a
lot of the reasons that we liked um you
know the S&P 500 that we liked tech are
starting to reverse and you know there
are other sectors that look much more
interesting.
>> Um I remember like a couple of years
back talking to Michael Hartnett your
colleague about the Magnificent 7. he
coined the term and we talked then about
the need for things to broaden out.
>> Yep.
>> Here we are again years later
>> having the same conversation
>> happening. I know.
>> And so what what is your sense of when
that's likely to happen? What would
catalyze that happening? Are we seeing
any indications that that's in the
office?
>> So I think it happens now. And I said
that last year and I was wrong. Why was
I wrong? I think part of the reason was
April 2nd we had this sort of curveball
around policy which created a lot of
paralysis in in corporate America.
today. Think about what's happened. We
have this one big beautiful bill act
which is incorporates bonus
depreciation. That means that if you
spend on capex now you get to um you
know you get kind of a free pass on it.
So I think that what that means is when
you listen to companies talking about
this, energy companies, real estate,
materials, manufacturing companies are
talking about bonus depreciation and how
that might pull forward capital
spending, which is actually pretty good
for the economy. It's good for
consumers. It kind of, you know, keeps
everything going. It's the animal
spirits argument and the missing link in
the economy over the last, you know, 20
years. We haven't made stuff in America
in a really long time. So I think that's
one big change that could drive
broadening. The other critical data
point that we pay attention to is
guidance. Last year CEOs aggressively
guided above what analysts were
expecting. These guys have every reason
to to lowball estimates and beat those
estimates. That's how they get paid. But
they were they're telling us they're
going to do better than we think. So
chances are they're still being
conservative. But I think that's the
argument for broadening the number of
companies that have guided up versus
down over the last three months. Two to
one. Normally it's the opposite. So I
think it's a really interesting time and
there's some proof of broadening
actually starting to happen.
>> If we were to put some detail around
that, how much of the broadening is the
493 versus midcap and small cap?
>> Yeah. So, we're looking at the S&P 2 one
means that twice as many companies in
the S&P 500 are guiding above. So, it's
it's across the board. You can't fake
this with seven companies crushing it.
You know, I think I think that's what's
important is it's a breath ratio. A lot
of the breath ratios we look at are
pretty healthy now. And I think analysts
are starting to pencil in better growth.
So, you know, this is this is all good,
but we haven't necessarily seen the
market react to that that earnings
story. Um, I think what's also
interesting is companies that are
surprising on earnings, especially in
these like well-held sectors like tech,
aren't necessarily rallying. In fact,
some of them are selling off. So, you
know, that's another sign that
positioning is very crowded and very
kind of uh aggregated in this one pocket
of the market. secular growth stocks, AI
themes, whereas the cyclicals and the
companies that could actually benefit
from a capback cycle are relatively
unloved and cheaper.
>> What What are those specific sectors
you're looking at to lead that rally?
>> So, I think that, you know, in prior
manufacturing capex pickups, you've seen
materials, energy, industrials,
financials do well. I think in this
cycle you've also got health care which
is a sector that we think of as
defensive but it could actually do
pretty well from AI adoption. This is
the one sector where we're really seeing
clear use cases in AI. These companies
are starting to use it. It's a very
inefficient laborintensive sector that's
starting to clean up its act. Same story
for financials to a lesser degree. And
then I think that you know in the
consumer space what I worry about is
discretionary spending. So I think we
could be in a year or two or three where
manufacturing takes the reigns but
consumption kind of falls back a little
bit. And think about the US consumer.
The biggest driver of US consumption
growth over the last 30 years has been
white collar professional services
employees you know 25 to 45 years old
getting jobs on Wall Street in tech etc.
those jobs are kind of kind of grinding
to a halt. So, I worry about that
consumption growth engine maybe tapering
off for a little bit.
>> Let me bring that back to what you said
about the one big beautiful bill because
yes, it has that capex facet to it, too.
But I think there's also this belief
that when it's all put into effect, it's
going to be demonstrabably better for a
lot of Americans. They're going to have
more cash. It's going to kind of free up
the consumer more than they've been. How
do you feel about that? And how does
that manifest itself?
>> Affordability is a buzz word. And look,
I think that's going to be really good
in terms of equalizing the playing
field. So where we see the benefits from
tax reform and a lot of the stimulus
that we're hearing about is really in
that lower income cohort that has been
struggling. This is one reason that
we're bullish on consumer staples.
Consumer staples is much more geared to,
you know, lower income consumption,
lower price point retailers, and that's
the area of the economy that has been
struggling. and you've seen staples
underperform for, you know, for years
now. I think that's one area that could
see a lift from, you know, just checks
from the government, um, no taxes on
tips and overtime. I think those are all
beneficial to that lower income services
cohort that has been the area of
struggle.
>> I'm going to go to a question I've asked
a couple times this morning, a variation
on it, and that is, um, when the
president's speaking, are you now adept
at kind of turning that down? Are you
closing Twitter and social media? um how
how much are you looking at earnings
exclusive of what we're seeing in terms
of kind of broader geopolitical risk.
How much does that matter as you think
about things?
>> No, it's such a good question and
normally we really didn't pay that much
attention to politics and policy but now
I think it is more important and I think
we're at an interesting moment where you
know we're seeing a lot of big shifts.
We're seeing a move from disinflation to
potential inflation. You know, maybe
even a big upside surprise in inflation.
Um, we're moving from an environment
where the way to make money was to move
your stuff to cheaper parts of the world
or source from cheaper parts of the
world. Now, companies have to be
efficient. They're focusing on
productivity. I think this is good for
corporates because they're doing the
hard work of managing risk in a much
more highquality way, an operational
change way, rather than just global cost
arbitrage or share buybacks.
>> But it is I think it's going to be
different. It's going to be different
leadership. Again, we've spent 20 years
or more underinvesting in manufacturing
in the United States, right? We're we're
not ready to make stuff aggressively.
So, I think we need to see that that
transition infrastructure spending, you
know, bolstering the US the US
infrastructure in order to be able to
manufacture. Um, so those are some of
the themes that I think could be
surprises over the next five years. Um,
but I do think we have to pay more
attention to policy. It's a it's a very
interesting moment,
>> the world we live in now. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Sevita, thank you for helping us
navigate that very complicated world we
live [laughter] in. Always great to see
you. Sevita Romani of Bank of America
Securities. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here
with your Bloomberg brief is Lizzie
Burton. Hey Lizzie.
>> Hey Danny. President Donald Trump
continuing to push for access to
Greenland. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the US wants to rewrite its
defense agreement with Denmark [music]
to remove any limits on its military
presence on the island. The current
arrangement signed in 1951 and amended
in 2004 calls for the US to consult with
both Denmark and Greenland before it
makes any significant changes. [music]
Elsewhere, Texas Governor Greg Abbott
issuing disaster declarations for more
than half the counties in the state
ahead of a powerful [music] winter
storm. The storm's expected to be one of
the toughest tests of the electric grid
since a deadly 2021 collapse. The storm
[music] could encrust trees and power
lines with ice, leading to widespread
outages. An [music] estimated damages
and losses may reach $25 billion. And
Tesla CEO Elon Musk says the company's
preparing for the commercial release
soon of its Optimus robots. Speaking in
Davos, Musk said the company was already
using some of the robots for simple
tasks in its factory. He also predicted
that Optimus would be doing more complex
tasks by the end of [music] 2026. That
should be my brief. Donnie, hello robot
overlords. Izzy, thank you very
[laughter] much. Up next, the morning
calls, plus Bill Wedell of ACE on what
to expect from the looming winter storm.
That's coming up. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
We were bullish [music] about server
overall demand, CPU demand and I think
they reiterated that message. But I
think what was disappointing was the
guidance. [music] They are still having
some of their own production issue,
execution issues. They've also may be
hampered by ongoing component issues
such as memory prices have continued to
go up. The positive part is that demand
is good but they have been able to
deliver so far on the execution.
>> Frankly there of HSBC on Intel. Speaking
of which, let's get more on your morning
calls. First up, City has lowered its
price target on Intel as the firm
believes the tech giant's gross margins
could remain under pressure. Next up,
Barkclays raised its price target on
[music] Tesla to $360 a share. The firm
says Tesla is benefiting from healthy
production [music] rates and reduced
electric vehicle losses. And finally,
Goldman Sachs upgrades Spotify to buy,
saying that they see the streaming giant
[music] well position to capitalize on
rising generative AI adoption. Turning
now to weather. More than 175 million
people across the US will be impacted by
a massive winter storm set to sweep
through dozens [music] of states. Acue
Weather's Bill Wadell joins us now with
the latest on the forecast. Bill, good
to see you. Hope you're staying warm.
How is this storm shaping up?
>> Good morning. ACE meteorologists say
this is the winter storm that will shut
it all down. We're joining you from
Charlotte, North Carolina this morning
where we're expecting a coding to an
inch of ice starting Saturday afternoon
and then half an inch to an inch of ice
after that through the weekend on
Sunday. This is going to be an absolute
mess. As you said, the impacts are going
to be spanning spanning more than 2,000
miles. We're talking about New Mexico
and Texas all the way up to the Carolas
with the significant and severe icing
impact. Freezing rain here is a huge
concern. When we have those accretions
of ice on power lines and trees, it can
quickly add hundreds of pounds of weight
bringing them down. And our team is
concerned about extended power outages
that could leave people without
electricity and heat for days, if not a
week or longer in some areas. Now, let's
talk about the northern side of this
winter storm. Just some incredible snow
totals are being forecasted. More than 2
feet in some areas of the Appalachins
and the Mid-Atlantic. Of course, big
cities along the Interstate 95 corridor.
We're talking well over 6 in. New York
City, Philadelphia, Boston, throughout
this corridor. Uh major impacts Sunday.
Acue weather meteorologists uh telling
us now they expect up to 9,000 US flight
cancellations Saturday, Sunday into
Monday. So, this is going to be a
massive travel nightmare uh for people,
for businesses, a lot of supply chain,
logistics, deliveries. Of course, you
think of the cities in that snow and ice
zone. We're talking Dallas, uh,
Louisville, all over. Big commerce
impacts expected over the next few days.
Uh, but this could quickly escalate into
a life-threatening situation, especially
on the southern end of the storm where
we're dealing with all of the ice uh,
and the potential for people that could
be without heat and power for several
days in sub freezing temperatures.
>> Bill, let's hope everyone is as prepared
as they can be. Thank you so much for
that, Bill Wadell of Acue Weather. Now,
meanwhile, as we look at that forecast
coming, natural gas futures are coming
back down today, but it followed a
record-breaking 3-day rally as that
freezing weather sweeps across markets.
Bloomberg Simon Casey joins us now for
more. Simon, how much of this is about
the weather versus just positioning
being off sides to this move?
>> It's all about the weather. The natural
gas market in this country largely moves
on the weather. So, week to week, dayto
day. and and what we saw well first of
all we had a long weekend last weekend
and as you remember that the forecast is
emerging over the weekend increasingly
concerning so you had this sort of
3-week uh three-day sorry gap between
trading sessions and then since Tuesday
the price has gone gone it's rocketed
higher almost up I think when I last
looked at more than 70% up for the week
um it's a it's a pretty historic move in
that market
>> bill giving us the brief there what the
forecast looks like and sounds like an
historic storm in many parts of of this
country. Um what does history tell us
about the effect this is likely to have
on the market going forward?
>> I mean for the natural gas market things
probably will settle down. The price
faction that we've been seeing is what
we call the front month futures
contract. So for delivery through into
February um further out prices are not
nearly as elevated. So this is kind of a
sort of a short-term anomaly but it does
speak to the anxiety that's out there
and memories are still very fresh. four
years ago, the winter storm that hit
Texas, we saw massive disruption both in
natural gas and and electricity markets
and and that continues to reverberate to
this day.
>> Glad you bring that up. I think we all
remember that and and I know that what's
changed a lot since then is just the
kind of population of data centers that
we have all across this country. How is
that variable um changed the way that we
should look at all this?
>> We're going to find out. I think I mean
to a certain extent that affects Texas.
Texas also has a very had had a very
strong economy since that time. The
population has grown, the demand has
grown, the state has gone some way to
addressing some of the problems that
were made apparent back in 2021. Um,
they've winterized, they've they've
solidified the grid. It's it's probably
more resistant, a lot more resistant
than it was, a lot more, uh, more solid.
uh but the data centers uh the the the
boom in data center construction what
we've seen is predominantly that's been
focused around Virginia in the PGM uh
grid which covers that part of the the
country further over to the east now the
weather is going to affect that part of
the country as well um you know and only
last week we saw an event in the white
house I think it was last Friday where
it was addressing concerns about
affordability on power but also there is
a a projected shortfall. Now, there is
enough power for the moment, but that's
getting stretched pretty thin. So, we'll
we'll find out over the weekend how how
robust things really are.
>> What What is the bar to see that
domestic disruption? How, as you said,
Texas may be a bit more fortified, but
how fortified? What does it take to
really upset this domestic market?
>> Key thing is going to be ice
accumulation on power lines. Do power
lines fall over? And then is there are
there knock-on effects as as as as as
power is rerooed to meet shortfalls and
and and outages and whether there's a
domino effect. That's what we saw four
years ago. Um the latest forecast for
for Monday uh when people go back to
work and in Texas we're forecasting
record power demand for this time of
year. There should be more than enough
power online. Now the question is are
there any power blinds and
infrastructure gets knocked out and does
that eat into that surplus of power. So
it's going to be critical to see to what
extent the infrastructure gets damaged
over the weekend. What we're expecting
is temperatures going to be very very
low. There will be ice, but [music] it's
going to be a shorter duration event
than what we saw in 2021. So fingers
crossed hopefully won't be quite as bad.
>> I was going to say I think a lot of
people hoping we don't see the worst of
this storm that's predicted. Simon,
thank you so much for joining us.
Bloomberg's Simon Casey. Coming up,
Aaron Mclofflin of the Conference Board
[music] as big banks weigh President
Trump's cap on credit card rates. Plus,
Bonnie Quinn, your morning movers as
Nvidia rises higher as China greenlights
H200 orders.
[music]
Moving closer to the last equity trading
day of the [music] week. Thank goodness.
Yes, it's only been 4 days, but it does
not feel like that. We are looking at
some of the worst of the losses this
morning only down 210 of 1% though I
should say Intel is weighing heavy on
this index this morning. The [music]
euro starts to fall snapping some of the
dollar's losing streak. Your 10-year
yield that standing at 42311 [music]
this morning down by about a basis
point. That's also a break of a trend of
higher [music] yields be it because of
geopolitical concerns or what's
happening in Japan. Some serious moves
in the Japanese currency market this
morning. 9x crude that's also higher
with most of this energy market as the
US Northeast and Texas eye some pretty
serious disruptive weather. We are one
hour away from the cash open. Here with
your morning movers is Bonnie Quinn. Hey
Bonnie. Hey Danny. You're right. Intel
weighing on this market. We're back down
to session lows and we could be on for
backtoback [music] weeks of declines.
But bear in mind we are still up year to
date 1% for both the S&P and the NASDAQ
100. Nvidia should help today although
we are pairing our gains right now. A
little bit of buying on the news in the
pre-market. We got word at Bloomberg
that some Chinese officials had told
some of the Chinese hyperscalers, so
Tencent, BYU, Alibaba, that they could
start prepping orders for H200 chips.
Now, this is tantamount to official
formal declaration that China can import
Nvidia [music] chips, right, which we
sort of knew was coming, but we needed
some more formal
underscoring of that. And so, you can
see the suppliers to Nvidia are also
rising. Buzzam Allen Hamilton. This is
an interesting one because this is an
example of the rotation trade, right?
This is a Russell 3000 company, a
defense contractor. [music]
It's up 13% year-to- date. It beat
estimates and raised its guidance up 5
a.5%, but it [music] is still down 30%
year-over-year. So, if you're looking
for an example of where the rotation
trade is happening, [music] it's
potentially in these defense
contractors. We know that President
Trump wants a ramp for defense spending
in the coming years, a phenomenal ramp,
and that would benefit the likes of
Booze Allen Hamilton. And then let's
take a look at the solar stocks because
of course we had Elon Musk making
comments in Davos this week to [music]
the effect that within a few years
SpaceX is going to be putting solarp
powered AI panels into space and that
would definitely help with the energy
crisis that many say we're about to see
thanks to these these data centers that
are just eating energy. President Trump
wants each to have energy associated
with it. Array Technologies up 2%,
[music] First Solar up more than 1%. And
given President Trump's position on
solar [music] technology, you wouldn't
think these stocks would be higher, but
they're actually up more than 35% for
for solar and more than 50%
year-over-year for Array Technologies.
So, it's an interesting sector to watch.
[music] Donnie,
>> Ronnie, thank you very much for your
work this morning. Turning to the
consumer, Bank of America and Croup are
looking into options for a new credit
card with a 10% [music] rate as
President Trump pushes for a one-year
cap on the interest rates. Joining us
now is Bloomberg Intelligence's Herman
Chan. Herman, what might we get from
these banks when it comes to new cards,
>> right? So, things seem to be pretty
fluid right now, but uh our Bloomberg
News colleagues did uh have some
reporting on a potential new card that
has the 10% rate cap from both the Bank
of America and City. We think that that
could have um some modest uptake uh
because really that card offering would
be more limited to uh your your prime
super prime cohort that that really
doesn't carry a balance typically. So uh
still remains to be seen how it's going
to be rolled out but but that's what we
know as of now.
>> Herman in evaluating these companies is
it your assumption that this takes the
regulatory heat or at least the heat
from the president off of them?
>> Right. So, we view any potential roll
out with the 10% rate cap as a PR win
for the administration and it really
would reduce some of the overhang for
for the bank the card issuing uh banks
that that we cover uh since since that
uh tweet that came out let's say 10 14
days ago the bank stocks are down uh for
for our coverage about 5 to 8%. So, uh
it it has weigh on some of the
sentiments. So, potentially that could
that could unlock. I want to ask you
just about the impact potential impact
of a broader cap here. I remember what
Jane Fraser of city said shortly after
this was announced via that that tweet
that you mentioned that there were
studies that would indicate that this
would have a huge impact on many
Americans ability to get credit in this
country. Is there that corpus of
literature? Have there been studies of
this? And sort of as you've game this
out, what would it mean if we saw yes
that broad cap put in place and sort of
again if we move to this latest
announcement about this potential card
with a 10% rate, right?
>> What would that mean for the bottom line
of these companies for these big banks?
>> Yes. So, so the banks had just wrapped
up the forky earning season and
collectively they were very uh
dismissive o of any potential, you know,
issue because it would just be
devastating for the American consumer.
It would really cut off credit for a
large swath of of Americans and bank
customers. uh I I hearken back to what
we see from the annual uh stress test
for for the banks and and the Federal
Reserve bakes in a 17% loss rate for for
credit cards under a adverse scenario.
So we're talking about you know if if
rates are capped at 10% would be grossly
unprofitable for for the entire industry
under that sort of scenario. So banks
need to plan and prepare for that that
sort of thing and a 10% rate up would be
very unproductive.
>> Herman, thank you very much for that.
Herman Chan of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Sticking with the consumer, Aaron
McGlaughlin of the Conference Board
joins us now. Aaron, great to see you
this morning. I I have to say these big
banks, the CEOs, they've reiterated even
if they don't agree with the 10% cap,
they've said yes, we agree with the
president, there is an affordability
issue. Are moves like this to offer some
credit cards with a 10% cap? Does that
move the needle at all with making
American consumers feel better about
affordability?
>> Well, I really don't know that it does.
So, I looked up some data points and we
know that about 60% of Americans uh
carry credit card debt and about half of
those carry it for more than a year. So,
that is a persistent structural issue
where they're not able to meet their
bills and they're relying on credit to
help pay for things. We've also seen,
for example, housing, which is such a
big topic, which is the biggest expense
for most consumers. The cost of housing
has doubled in the last five or six
years. And so, you know, offering new
credit cards with 10% to prime or super
prime borrowers. Those folks are
probably not the ones carrying credit
card debt might be a message win, but
I'm not sure it would really make any
difference for the American consumer.
Erin, there does feel this weird
contrast where the affordability
concerns are real and many people are
facing higher costs as you mentioned in
housing across the board yet we continue
to get spending data that shows a really
robust consumer. How do you square the
two?
>> Well, I think it comes down to the labor
market in large part. A lot of consumers
feel uh you know they are continuing to
spend as long as they have jobs and
credit card debt is a good indication.
Back in 2022, of course, this was coming
out of the pandemic. People were not
traveling. They maybe weren't eating out
as much. Credit card debt hovered around
800 billion. Now it's up to 1.2 1.3
trillion. And so some of that is
probably interest rates on the credit
cards going up, but some of that is
consumers. I hate to say it, but getting
Door Dash, you know, being out and sort
of living their best lives post
pandemic. And I think that when we look
back at these, you know, at the 20s, at
this moment in history, we will see that
consumer behavior, you know, really
was a result of different sort of points
in time such as the pandemic.
>> Next time I get takeout, I'm going to
say I'm living my best life. [laughter]
>> You're living your best life. A good of
reason is
>> delivery, not takeout. Excuse me, Erin.
Let me move to like another plan or
concept of a plan we've seen floated by
this administration. That is through
this executive order on housing that
there's going to be a prohibition here
uh on big companies owning a significant
chunk of of housing properties. As you
think through what Danny brought up,
this affordability question, does that
make any notionable difference in sort
of how Americans deal with this
affordability issue or crisis? Is it
going to make a difference in their
daily lives if if we're having these
companies unable to purchase homes in
the way in which they have
>> unable to purchase? Well, we are writing
a paper about it right now. It's coming
out later this week at the conference
board. And it's really really
interesting. So, we did not have large
corporate investment owned housing
before the Great Recession. Like
companies just did not go in and buy
single family homes. It was not a
business model at any large scale. It
has really really developed in the last
10 or 15 years, but it still represents
less than 1% of single family home
purchasing and then therefore renting
out on a national basis. So on a
national basis, it will have very little
impact on affordability. It won't really
move, you know, the supply needle that
much. It won't really move the price
needle that much. But there are some
markets and they're all in the sun belt
for the most part where there's been a
really heavy concentration. So, if you
limit future purchases in those markets,
because I'm not sure, although the
executive order does possibly refer to,
you know, looking into um sort of
competitive issues. So, I guess there is
a potential that companies might have to
sell some of their portfolio if they if
it's anti-competitive in certain
markets. But, you know, looking forward,
it might create some uh some
affordability might benefit some
consumers in some Sunb Belt cities like
Atlanta and Tampa and Phoenix where
we've seen a heavy purchasing of these
kinds of properties, but overall it will
have really really a minimal impact on
housing affordability.
>> So, here's my overarching question about
consumer sentiment. You study it so
closely. Does the sense that
policymakers are doing something lead to
an uptick in consumer sentiment or does
nothing really compare to uh a
difference in the bottom line? I think
of the the president floating these
$2,000 tariff checks should that come to
fruition? I imagine that that would lead
to an immediate boost in consumer
sentiment. Does all of this stuff that's
happening on the margins, the promise of
these changes to housing, to credit
cards, um, lead to a boost in consumer
sentiment as well, or or or do
consumers, I think, rightly understand
that it's stuff that's like not fully
fleshed out and not likely to impact
them immediately, if at all?
>> I think, you know, when we look at CEOs
and consumers, both are, you know, fair
fairly
confused, feeling uncertain, feeling
they're questioning a lot of what's
happening in the future. They're looking
ahead. You know, it's very very
interesting. Our most recent seuite
outlook that we just released within the
last couple weeks. Our big annual survey
showed geopolitics as the the biggest
factor in what CEOs are thinking about.
And some of that even trickles down to
consumers. Of course, American consumers
are paying attention to their own
day-to-day needs. They're not
necessarily following Davos, for
example, or following, you know, all of
the things that we do, but they have a
general sense that things are a little
bit different than they have been
before. And that really comes down to
just a reordering of global norms, of
global trade. And you know, I think also
we've been looking closely at Canada,
for example, a long-term ally of ours.
CEOs are not going to move their supply
chain. They're not necessarily going to
start building new factories if a lot of
the relationships we have with our
allies, with our closest trading
neighbors have not been sorted out.
>> And yet, to your point, Aaron, the labor
market is holding up. So, they can feel
anxious, but they can spend. At what
point though does just the anxiety of
the potential of losing a job, be it
because of a downturn in the economy, be
it geopolitics, be it the raise, the
rise rather, of AI, at what point, if
ever, is anxiety enough to hold people
back from purchasing more?
>> Well, I think that we'll we'll get a
chance to find out, but perhaps it won't
we won't find out soon. We are not
calling for a recession at the
conference board. you know, we have an
unemployment rate that's still uh, you
know, just over 4%. We do think it could
tick up to maybe 4.6 4.7% later this
year, but given our demographic
situation and given, you know, with our
shrinking um, labor participation,
workforce age folks, and it will take
some time for AI really to show a lot
of, you know, productivity and it may
not replace a lot of workers. that may
just create new jobs, we think, and
create a lot of opportunity. So, I'm not
sure that that sort of crisis moment is
going to come as a result of sort of an
economic slowdown or a hike in
unemployment anytime soon.
>> Erin, great to get your thoughts this
morning. Thank you for joining us. Aaron
McLaclin of the Conference Board, have a
great weekend. David, was I sensing a
little bit of guilt for ordering
delivery?
>> You know, I just love that veneer that I
can feel great about doing it, but
>> I only feel guilty if it's like this
weekend and the weather is bad. tip well
>> like extremely extremely well. I think
that is uh wise words to live by. Let's
get an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here with your Bloomberg brief
is Lizzie Burden. Hey Lizzie. Hey Danny.
JP Morgan Chase CEO Jamie Diamond earned
$43 million last year. According to a
regulatory filing, Diamond's total
compensation increased 10% in 2025. He
received a base salary of $ 1.5 million
and $41.5 million in incentives.
Diamond's one of the highest paid bosses
in corporate America. Elsewhere, New
York City is expected to get more than a
foot of snow this weekend with Central
Park possibly getting as much as 16 in.
The National Weather Service saying
confidence is increasing for a winter
storm to impact the region Sunday
through Monday. More than 2,000
sanitation workers will be working
12-hour shifts to prepare for and
respond to the storm with a liquid salt
solution being applied to roadways
across the city starting this morning.
And commissioners from top US men's
[music] pro sports leagues are
reportedly set to visit the White House
as early as next week to discuss
President Donald Trump's plans for
celebrating America's 250th anniversary.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that commissioners from the NFL, NBA,
MLB, NHL, and MLS will be attending.
That's Bloomberg Brief. Danny Lizzie,
thank you very much and thank you for
all your work this morning. Up next,
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus
Fiona Sincotta of Forex.com previewing
next week's Fed meeting. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Two days of a re relief rally comes to
an end on this Friday as equity markets
head to a weekly loss, the second
consecutive one, the first time we'll
see that [music] since June. Stocks are
down 210 of a percent in the future
session, just under an hour until the
start of cash trading. Your euro also
weaker this morning. Euro dollar
standing at 11739.
Finally, a little bit of calm in this
bond market. a return to what we were
used to and that is a stayed sleepy bond
market after the rupture of earlier this
week. 42391 [music]
is where we stand on your 10-year yield.
While Nyx crude peaks up 2.1% as [music]
a snap of cold weather is set to hit the
US as energy markets rally across the
world. [music] Counting down to the
opening bell. Here is your trading diary
for the week. Today we'll get University
of Michigan sentiment due out at 10:00
[music] a.m. Eastern. Monday, durable
goods orders. Tuesday, President Trump
will be speaking in Iowa and will get
results from American [music] Airlines,
General Motors, and UPS. Wednesday, the
FOMC rate decision, followed by Fed
Chair J. [music] Powell's press
conference, plus results from Microsoft
Meta and Tesla. On Thursday, another
round of jobless claims and results from
Apple, and then on Friday, results
[music] from Chevron. Turning to next
week's Fed decision. Bloomberg's Michael
McKe joins us now. Michael, we also got
a host of data over the past couple
days. What are we expecting next week?
>> Well, we got a little more data coming
in. And the big question going into the
weekend is what are people going to be
talking about more, the snowstorm or the
Fed? On Monday, you'll see a lot of
people out shoveling and we probably
won't have a lot of other news. But
Tuesday, we get the consumer confidence.
You were just talking to the conference
board and their number comes out on
Tuesday. Wednesday's the Fed. Thursday,
jobless claims and November trade will
be interesting because one of the
reasons fourth quarter growth so far is
high is because of distortions to the
October report. We'll see what November
brings and how that changes the numbers.
And we then get the December PPI on
Friday, which will enable us to
calculate what the December PCE was.
Remember, yesterday we saw uh 5 uh 2.7%
for the year-over-year inflation rate.
Now, as for the Fed, it's going to be an
interesting meeting because they're not
going to do anything. Right now, there's
just a 3 and a half% chance according to
futures that they do any kind of rate
move. There's no dot plot. There's no
economic forecast. Everybody will be
looking to JP Pal for guidance on the
future. But what's the first question
going to be? Is it going to be about
guidance for the future or is it going
to be about his feud with Donald Trump?
So, a lot to watch there and it will be
a very interesting Wednesday afternoon.
Mikey, you mentioned the snowstorm
coming our way. David and I were talking
with Bill Wedell of Acueeather who
painted a frankly grim picture that it's
going to be ice, it's going to be plains
ground to a halt, that there's going to
be freezing conditions that people are
going to have to contend with. How do we
look about the economic fallout of such
a severe storm in the United States?
>> Well, there will be an economic fallout.
The question is how bad will the storm
be and how long does it last to
determine whether it's a significant
impact or not? Of course, first thing
that's going to happen is that uh we see
from Chicago on east uh all the airlines
are going to be cancelling flights on uh
Sunday and on Monday. That's a loss of
business and a loss of business for the
airlines. We do get a bump in spending
going into this. Everybody's at Home
Depot or Lowe's all around the country
trying to buy generators and snow
shovels and snow melt stuff. Uh and then
when we get into maybe Monday, Tuesday,
there won't be much other spending.
People will be staying home. they won't
be able to get out. We'll see how bad
the ice is, particularly in the south. A
couple of years ago, there was a big ice
storm in the south and we saw spending
interrupted for about a week and then of
course the widespread power outages that
are forecast. We could see a lot of
businesses have to shut down and remain
shut. So, it's definitely something to
watch from an economic point of view as
well as from a storm watchers point of
view.
>> Yeah, Mike, I don't think we can say it
enough this morning. We really hope
everyone stays safe out there. Michael
McKe, thank you so much for tracking
that for us. And we stick with the Fed.
Fiona Sinata of Forex.com joins us now
for more. And Fiona, it's your
assumption that this is a Fed that's not
going to be able to cut. How long are
they going to be on hold? What needs to
change in order to get any movement from
this Federal Reserve?
>> Yeah. I mean, you know, if we think
about where we are at the moment, the
picture is very much that, you know,
growth is looking like it's okay. It's
not doing anything amazing, but it's
definitely not sort of showing any signs
of concern. Um, inflation broader trend
is still the disinflation, be it very
slowly now. And then we've got the jobs
market question. So, if we think about
the data that the Fed's going to be
weighing up and what it needs to see
change, it's going to be the picture of
inflation and the jobs market. So, you
know, at the moment, there are signs
that maybe that jobs market weakness is
sort of starting to steady a little bit.
bit jobless claims have been coming in a
little bit better than expected which
offers some optimism. Um but at the same
time what's going on with inflation? You
know we saw that latest PCE data core
PCE um down at 2.8%.
Um but again that was the November
reading. So the Fed's still also trying
to sort of get through that haze of US
government shutdown and clear data. So,
I think the Fed is going to want to see
either disinflation continue at a
further pace or the jobs market collapse
f or or weaken further in order to be
able to comfortably cut interest rates
again. And I don't think either of those
are coming through at the moment. We're
potentially not going to be seeing that
until around the June period of the
year.
>> Fiona, there's been a chorus of policy
makers and analysts who have been
counseling us to pay more attention to
what's going on in Japan. And this
morning, I think uh is another
re-emphasis of of that. We've seen the
move in in the end on the heels of that
BOJ meeting. What's your interpretation
of what caused that and what that
signals here to the the broader global
market?
>> Yeah. So, what's going on in Japan I
think is really interesting. Obviously,
we had the BOJ yesterday. They left
interest rates unchanged as expected
after hiking rates to 0.75% in um
December. It's the highest level since
1995. So, rates are high there.
Interesting. We saw that volatility in
the yen around that decision. Now I
think that really um caught our
attention because this just highlights
the level of nervousness I think in the
market with the yen at that level
against the US dollar. So we're trading
around that 160 level which is close to
that um intervention level which is
broadly seen as that sort of red line in
the sand um where there could be a
potential intervention. Now, we did see
the yen weaken after this decision from
the BOJ. Again, interesting because the
BOJ was almost taking sort of they have
an undercurrent of a hawkish stance and
yet we saw the yen weaken and that's
because of those concerns over what's
going on fiscally in Japan. We've got
obviously the bond market in Japan has
seen a lot of volatility recently. We
had those 40-year yields um at record
highs earlier this week. Um, so there is
a lot of concern over that and that's
causing that weakness in the yen and
just creating a sense of uncertainty uh
towards the currency.
>> Very quickly here, let me ask you about
dollar weakness as we talk about this
sell America trade on the heels of of
what unfolded in the Alps um this week.
What are you watching for there here as
we move into the next week?
>> Yeah. So this dollar sweetness story is
really interesting as well, right?
because we saw it come off even though
it can potentially be a safe haven often
is a safe haven but obviously because of
how close the uh situation is towards
you know the US economy to Trump um we
saw that sell off and sell America in
the US dollar but we saw it continue to
sell off even as the picture surrounding
Greenland improved and I think that's
really interesting I think it does um
raise some questions as far as policy
uncertainty is concerned um from the
Trump administration potentially even
questions over credibility given that
sort of repeated taco trade that we seem
to be seeing. Um, but going into next
week, I think the market's going to want
to be moving away where possible from
geopolitical and moving back its focus
towards Trump uh towards the Federal
Reserve towards data and back towards
those typical drivers um that we would
be normally watching. [music]
>> Fiona, thank you so much. Fiona Sinata
of Forex.com, a stone x company. Coming
up on Monday, Russ, Sarah Hunt, and Bob
Michael. David, it's been wonderful to
uh spend this Friday with you. Good
luck. Stay warm.
>> Yep. Stay safe, stay warm. The motto,
the mantra
>> for the next three days. This was
surveillance.